***
***
***
******
ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
A Brothers murther. Pray can I not,
A Challice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
A Combination, and a forme indeed,
A Couch for Luxury and damned Incest.
A Cutpurse of the Empire and the Rule.
A Heart vnfortified, a Minde impatient,
A Ministring Angell shall my Sister be,
A Noise within.
A Sable Siluer'd
A Scullion? Fye vpon't: Foh. About my Braine.
A Serpent stung me: so the whole eare of Denmarke,
A Sister driuen into desperate tearmes,
A Slaue, that is not twentieth part the tythe
A Station, like the Herald Mercurie
A Sword vnbaited, and in a passe of practice,
A Villaine killes my Father, and for that
A Violet in the youth of Primy Nature;
A basenesse to write faire; and laboured much
A blanket in th' Alarum of feare caught vp.
About her lanke and all ore-teamed Loines,
About the World haue times twelue thirties beene,
Abridgements come.
A broken voyce, and his whole Function suiting
Absent thee from felicitie awhile,
Abuses me to damne me. Ile haue grounds
According to the Phrase and the Addition,
Action. The
Actor
Acts little of his will. Tell me Laertes,
Act to doe and to performe; argall she drown'd her selfe
Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.
Actus Secundus.
A damn'd defeate was made. Am I a Coward?
Adams Profession
Addicted so and so; and there put on him
Admit no Messengers, receiue no Tokens:
A double blessing is a double grace;
Adue, adue, Hamlet: remember me.
A dull and muddy-metled Rascall, peake
A face without a heart?
A fault against the Dead, a fault to Nature,
Affront Ophelia. Her Father, and my selfe (lawful espials)
After the Danish Sword, and thy free awe
After the thing it loues
Against the which, a Moity competent
Against thy Mother ought; leaue her to heauen,
Against your selfe. I know you are no Truant:
A happinesse,
   Al. We will, we will
Alacke, and fie for shame:
Alas, how shall this bloody deede be answered?
Alexander died: Alexander was buried: Alexander returneth
A little Month, or ere those shooes were old,
All Flaxen was his Pole:
   All. Lights, Lights, Lights.
   All. Longer, longer
   All. No, let's come in
   All. Our duty to your Honour.
  All. Treason, Treason
All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
All from her Fathers death. Oh Gertrude, Gertrude,
All giuen to mine eare
All may be well.
All my smooth Body.
All sawes of Bookes, all formes, all presures past,
Almost to Ielly with the Act of feare,
A man that Fortunes buffets, and Rewards
   Amb. The sight is dismall,
Ambitious, with more offences at my becke,
Among a Minerall of Mettels base
An Vnderstanding simple, and vnschool'd:
And Conuoy is assistant; doe not sleepe,
And England, if my loue thou holdst at ought,
And Forraigne Mart for Implements of warre:
And I a Maid at your Window, to be your Valentine.
And I am sicke at heart
And I belieue it is a fetch of warrant:
And I beseech you instantly to visit
And I do doubt the hatch, and the disclose
And I do thinke, or else this braine of mine
And Iemme of all our Nation
And Ile be plac'd so, please you in the eare
And I the matter will re-word: which madnesse
And I with them the third Night kept the Watch,
And Mermaid-like, a while they bore her vp,
And Sister, as the Winds giue Benefit,
And after we will both our iudgements ioyne,
And all we waile for
And am most sensible in greefe for it,
And a most instant Tetter bak'd about,
And (as I thinke) they haue already order
And as he dreines his draughts of Renish downe,
And as my Loue is siz'd, my Feare is so
And as the sleeping Soldiours in th' Alarme,
And as the world were now but to begin,
And as you said, and wisely was it said,
And at our more consider'd time wee'l read,
And at the sound it shrunke in hast away,
And batten on this Moore? Ha? Haue you eyes?
And beare it to the Chappell
And be not from his reason falne thereon;
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
And borrowing duls the edge of Husbandry.
And botch the words vp fit to their owne thoughts,
And both neglect; what if this cursed hand
And boule the round Naue downe the hill of Heauen,
And bow them to your gracious leaue and pardon
And breake your owne necke downe
And breath of life: I haue no life to breath
And bring the Gentlemen where Hamlet is
And but that great Command, o're-swaies the order,
And by opposing end them: to dye, to sleepe
And call it accident: Some two Monthes hence
And call the Noblest to the Audience.
And can say nothing: No, not for a King,
And carriage of the Article designe,
And cleaue the generall eare with horrid speech:
And could of men distinguish, her election
And crooke the pregnant Hindges of the knee,
And curd, like Aygre droppings into Milke,
And do not spred the Compost on the Weedes,
And do such bitter businesse as the day
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
And draw you into madnesse thinke of it?
And duller should'st thou be then the fat weede
And each particular haire to stand an end,
And end his being. That done, he lets me goe,
And enterprizes of great pith and moment,
And fall a Cursing like a very Drab.
And flights of Angels sing thee to thy rest,
And for his death no winde of blame shall breath,
And for his passage,
And for my Soule, what can it doe to that?
And for my meanes, Ile husband them so well,
And for that purpose Ile annoint my Sword:
And for the day confin'd to fast in Fiers,
And for your Rapier most especiall,
And for your part Ophelia, I do wish
And from her faire and vnpolluted flesh,
And from his Mother Clossets hath he drag'd him.
And from his mouth
And gather by him, as he is behaued,
And gaue you such a Masterly report,
And gins to pale his vneffectuall Fire:
And hath shipped me intill the Land,
And he beseech'd me to intreate your Maiesties
And here giue vp our selues, in the full bent,
And he repulsed. A short Tale to make,
And he to England shall along with you:
And his Commission to imploy those Soldiers
And hitherto doth Loue on Fortune tend,
And how, and who; what meanes; and where they keepe:
And how his Audit stands, who knowes, saue Heauen:
And hurt my Mother
And if thou prate of Mountaines; let them throw
And in his brainish apprehension killes
And in part him. Doe you marke this Reynoldo?
And in the Cup an vnion shal he throw
And in the Morne and liquid dew of Youth,
And in the Porches of mine eares did poure
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in paine,
And in this vpshot, purposes mistooke,
(And it doth well appeare vnto our State)
And it must follow, as the Night the Day,
And keepe a Farme and Carters
And keepe within the reare of your Affection;
And lay your hands againe vpon my sword,
And leads the will to desperate Vndertakings,
And let him for a paire of reechie kisses,
And let him know so
And let me speake to th' yet vnknowing world,
And let me wring your heart, for so I shall
And let the Kettle to the Trumpets speake,
And let thine eye looke like a Friend on Denmarke.
And let vs heare Barnardo speake of this
And let vs once againe assaile your eares,
And like a Newtrall to his will and matter, did nothing.
And like a man to double businesse bound,
And like the kinde Life-rend'ring Politician,
And liue the purer with the other halfe.
And loose the name of Action. Soft you now,
And loose your voyce. What would'st thou beg Laertes,
And makes a blister there. Makes marriage vowes
And makes as healthfull Musicke. It is not madnesse
And makes each petty Artire in this body,
And makes vs rather beare those illes we haue,
And many such like Assis of great charge,
And meant to wracke thee: but beshrew my iealousie:
And melt in her owne fire. Proclaime no shame,
And more aboue hath his soliciting,
And much offence too, touching this Vision heere:
And my Imaginations are as foule
And (my yong Mistris) thus I did bespeake
And neuer come mischance betweene vs twaine.
And neuer did the Cyclops hammers fall
And not t'haue strew'd thy Graue
And not where I had arm'd them
And now Ile doo't, and so he goes to Heauen,
And now Laertes, what's the newes with you?
And now no soyle nor cautell doth besmerch
And now reignes heere.
And of all Christian Soules, I pray God.
And oft 'tis seene, the wicked prize it selfe
And on his graue raines many a teare,
And our affaires from England come too late,
And our vaine blowes, malicious Mockery
And passion in the Gods
And peculiar life is bound
And pious Action, we do surge o're
And pittie it is true: A foolish figure,
(And praise be rashnesse for it) let vs know,
And put it in his Pocket
And reaks not his owne reade
And scape detecting, I will pay the Theft.
And set a double varnish on the fame
And shall I couple Hell? Oh fie: hold my heart;
And since so Neighbour'd to his youth, and humour,
And so am I reueng'd: that would be scann'd,
And sodainely contriue the meanes of meeting
And so, without more circumstance at all,
And stand a Comma 'tweene their amities,
And still your fingers on your lippes I pray,
And sure I am, two men there are not liuing,
And tediousnesse, the limbes and outward flourishes,
And tell you what I know
And termes Compulsatiue, those foresaid Lands
And that I hope will teach you to imagine-
And that I see in passages of proofe,
And that he cals for drinke; Ile haue prepar'd him
And that his Soule may be as damn'd and blacke
And that in way of caution: I must tell you,
And that our drift looke through our bad performance,
And that shall lend a kinde of easinesse
And that your Grace hath screen'd, and stoode betweene
And the Kings Rouce, the Heauens shall bruite againe,
And then (they say) no Spirit can walke abroad,
And there I see such blacke and grained spots,
And there assumes some other horrible forme,
And there did seeme in him a kinde of ioy
And therefore I forbid my teares: but yet
And therefore must his choyce be circumscrib'd
And these few Precepts in thy memory,
And they in France of the best ranck and station,
And they ran well on Horsebacke; but this Gallant
And they shall heare and iudge 'twixt you and me;
And thinke it pastime. You shortly shall heare more,
And thirtie dozen Moones with borrowed sheene,
And thou hadst not come to my bed
And thou must cure me: Till I know 'tis done,
And thou shalt liue in this faire world behinde,
And thrice his head thus wauing vp and downe;
And thus I know his father and his friends,
And thus awhile the fit will worke on him:
And thus doe we of wisedome and of reach
And thus o're-sized with coagulate gore,
And thus the Natiue hew of Resolution
And thy Commandment all alone shall liue
And thy best graces spend it at thy will:
And to my mind, though I am natiue heere,
And to such wondrous doing brought his Horse,
And to the last, bended their light on me
And to the manner borne: It is a Custome
And to those Thornes that in her bosome lodge,
And vanisht from our sight
And wager on your heads, he being remisse,
And waites vpon the Iudgement: and what Iudgement
And wants not Buzzers to infect his eare
And we beseech you, bend you to remaine
And we did thinke it writ downe in our duty
And we shall ioyntly labour with your soule
And what make you from Wittenberg Horatio?
And what's in Prayer, but this two-fold force,
And whatsoeuer els shall hap to night,
And what so poore a man as Hamlet is,
And what's vntimely done. Oh come away,
And when he's not himselfe, do's wrong Laertes,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
And where th' offence is, let the great Axe fall.
And where 'tis so, th' Offenders scourge is weigh'd
And who in want a hollow Friend doth try,
And why such dayly Cast of Brazon Cannon
And will he not come againe:
And will not let beleefe take hold of him
And will this Brothers wager frankely play.
And wil not wrong it
And with a larger tether may he walke,
And with a looke so pitious in purport,
And with a sodaine vigour it doth posset
And with his head ouer his shoulders turn'd,
And with his other hand thus o're his brow,
And with no lesse Nobility of Loue,
And with such coozenage; is't not perfect conscience,
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken,
And with their corporall ayre do hold discourse.
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd,
And yet to me they are strong. The Queen his Mother,
And you are staid for there: my blessing with you;
And you must needs haue heard how I am punisht
And you must put me in your heart for Friend,
And you my sinnewes, grow not instant Old;
And your poore Seruant euer
And you the Iudges beare a wary eye
And you your selfe shall keepe the key of it
An eye like Mars, to threaten or command
An houre of quiet shortly shall we see;
A noise within. Let her come in.
Anon as patient as the female Doue,
Another thing that you should be aware of is that there are textual
Answere
Answer, and thinke vpon this Businesse.
Antiquity forgot, Custome not knowne,
Appeares before them, and with sollemne march
A rapsidie of words. Heauens face doth glow,
Are base respects of Thrift, but none of Loue.
Are burnt and purg'd away? But that I am forbid
Are heere arriued. Giue order that these bodies
Are ioyfully return'd
Are mortiz'd and adioyn'd: which when it falles,
Are of a most select and generous cheff in that.
Arm'd at all points exactly, Cap a Pe,
A rowsed Vengeance sets him new a-worke,
Art more ingag'd: Helpe Angels, make assay:
As England was his faithfull Tributary,
As Hell, whereto it goes. My Mother stayes,
As I do thee. Something too much of this.
As I haue vs'd to do: that I haue found
As I perceiued it, I must tell you that
(As I perchance heereafter shall thinke meet
As I understand it, the printers often ran out of certain words
As Peace should still her wheaten Garland weare,
As Reason panders Will
As Vulcans Stythe. Giue him needfull note,
As any the most vulgar thing to sence,
As are Companions noted and most knowne
A sauagenes in vnreclaim'd bloud of generall assault
As by your Safety, Wisedome, all things else,
As checking at his Voyage, and that he meanes
As day do's to your eye.
As deepe as to the Lungs? Who does me this?
A second time, I kill my Husband dead,
As ere my Conuersation coap'd withall
As false as Dicers Oathes. Oh such a deed,
As fits a Kings remembrance
As from the body of Contraction pluckes
As had he beene encorps't and demy-Natur'd
As hardy as the Nemian Lions nerue:
As he in his peculiar Sect and force
As he is very potent with such Spirits,
As he would draw it. Long staid he so,
As hush as death: Anon the dreadfull Thunder
As if encrease of Appetite had growne
As if he had been loosed out of hell,
As if it some impartment did desire
A silence in the Heauens, the Racke stand still,
As it behoues my Daughter, and your Honour.
As it is common for the yonger sort
As kill a King, and marrie with his Brother
As loue betweene them, as the Palme should flourish,
As low as to the Fiends
As made the things more rich, then perfume left:
As make your bowts more violent to the end,
As may dishonour him; take heed of that:
As meditation, or the thoughts of Loue,
As my great power thereof may giue thee sense,
As needfull in our Loues, fitting our Duty?
As of a Father; For let the world take note,
As oft as any passion vnder Heauen,
As one incapable of her owne distresse,
As one in suffering all, that suffers nothing.
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".
Assume a Vertue, if you haue it not, refraine to night,
As therein are set downe
As they fell out by Time, by Meanes, and Place,
As to expend your time with vs a-while,
As to giue words or talke with the Lord Hamlet:
As to peace-parted Soules
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i'th' working:
As watchmen to my heart: but good my Brother
As we haue warrantie, her death was doubtfull,
As well, we know, or we could and if we would,
As will not leaue their Tinct
As you are Friends, Schollers and Soldiers,
At friend, or so, and Gentleman
At gaming, swearing, or about some acte
At his head a grasse-greene Turfe, at his heeles a stone.
At last, a little shaking of mine Arme:
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmarke;
At least the whisper goes so: Our last King,
At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-third
Attendants.
Attends the boystrous Ruine. Neuer alone
Author of affectation, but cal'd it an honest method. One
A verie verie Paiocke
Awake the God of Day: and at his warning,
Away, for euery thing is Seal'd and done
A worthy Pioner, once more remoue good friends
*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
   Bap. Nor Earth to giue me food, nor Heauen light,
  Bap. Oh confound the rest:
   Bap. So many iournies may the Sunne and Moone
   Bapt. The instances that second Marriage moue,
  Bar. He
   Bar. I haue seene nothing
   Bar. Long liue the King
   Bar. Long liue the King
   Bar. Say, what is Horatio there?
   Bar. Sit downe a-while,
   Bar. 'Tis now strook twelue, get thee to bed Francisco
   Bar. Welcome Horatio, welcome good Marcellus
   Barn. Haue you had quiet Guard?
   Barn. How now Horatio? You tremble & look pale:
   Barn. In the same figure, like the King that's dead
   Barn. It was about to speake, when the Cocke crew
  Barn. It would be spoke too
   Barn. Last night of all,
   Barn. Lookes it not like the King? Marke it Horatio
   Barn. See, it stalkes away
   Barn. 'Tis heere
   Barn. Well, goodnight. If you do meet Horatio and
  Barnardo. Who's there?
  Barnardo. Who's there?
Be all my sinnes remembred
Beare Hamlet like a Soldier to the Stage,
Beares such an Emphasis? whose phrase of Sorrow
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Be as our selfe in Denmarke. Madam come,
Be buried quicke with her, and so will I.
Becomes the Field, but heere shewes much amis.
Beene thus encountred. A figure like your Father,
Before mine Vnkle. Ile obserue his lookes,
Before my Daughter told me what might you
Before you visite him you make inquiry
Begin Murderer. Pox, leaue thy damnable Faces, and
Behinde the Arras Ile conuey my selfe
Behinde the Arras, hearing something stirre,
Being a thing immortall as it selfe:
Beleeue so much in him, that he is young,
Bene strooke so to the soule, that presently
Be soft as sinewes of the new-borne Babe,
Be somewhat scanter of your Maiden presence;
Be thou a Spirit of health, or Goblin damn'd,
Be thou familiar; but by no meanes vulgar:
Be thy euents wicked or charitable,
Betweene him, and my daughter.
Betweene the passe, and fell incensed points
Be wary then, best safety lies in feare;
Be you and I behinde an Arras then,
Be you content to lend your patience to vs,
Blacke as his purpose, did the night resemble
Blasted with extasie. Oh woe is me,
Blasting his wholsom breath. Haue you eyes?
Bodie of the Time, his forme and pressure. Now, this
  Both. Arm'd, my Lord
  Both. I, by Heau'n, my Lord
  Both. My Lord, from head to foote
   Both. My Lord, we will not
  Both. We doe my Lord
  Both. Wee'l wait vpon you
   Both. We will haste vs.
  Both. We will my Lord.
Both countenance, and excuse.
Both heere, and hence, pursue me lasting strife,
Both to my God, one to my gracious King:
Bow stubborne knees, and heart with strings of Steele,
Braines
Breake all the Spokes and Fallies from her wheele,
Breake we our Watch vp, and by my aduice
Breathing like sanctified and pious bonds,
Briefe let me be: Sleeping within mine Orchard,
Bring with thee ayres from Heauen, or blasts from Hell,
Brutus kill'd me
Burne out the Sence and Vertue of mine eye.
But I am Pigeon-Liuer'd, and lacke Gall
But I do prophesie th' election lights
But I haue that Within, which passeth show;
But Sir, such wanton, wild, and vsuall slips,
But answere made it none: yet once me thought
But as we often see against some storme,
But beare me stiffely vp: Remember thee?
But better look'd into, he truly found
But breake my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
But byrlady he must builde Churches then: or else shall
But die thy thoughts, when thy first Lord is dead
But doe not dull thy palme, with entertainment
But doe not goe with it
But euen his Mother shall vncharge the practice,
But euen then, the Morning Cocke crew lowd;
But fall vnshaken, when they mellow bee.
But farewell it: for I will vse no Art.
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
But from what cause he will by no meanes speake
But hee's an arrant knaue
But howsoeuer thou pursuest this Act,
But if't be hee I meane, hees very wilde;
But if the Gods themselues did see her then,
But if you hold it fit after the Play,
But in Battalians. First, her Father slaine,
But in a Fixion, in a dreame of Passion,
But in our circumstance and course of thought
But in the grosse and scope of my Opinion,
But let it be: Horatio, I am dead,
But let me heare from you
But let that go
But let this same be presently perform'd,
But like the Owner of a foule disease,
But looke, Amazement on thy Mother sits;
But looke, the Morne in Russet mantle clad,
But made in craft. 'Twere good you let him know,
But meere implorators of vnholy Sutes,
But neerer the offence: to beare all smooth, and euen,
But neuer Doubt, I loue.
But not exprest in fancie; rich, not gawdie:
But now my Cosin Hamlet, and my Sonne?
But orderly to end, where I begun,
But our cold Maids doe Dead Mens Fingers call them:
But pardon't as you are a Gentleman.
But since he is better'd, we haue therefore oddes
But since so iumpe vpon this bloodie question,
But sir, such answers as I can make, you shal command:
But soft, behold: Loe, where it comes againe:
But soft, but soft, aside; heere comes the King.
But soft, me thinkes I sent the Mornings Ayre;
But sure the brauery of his griefe did put me
But that I know Loue is begun by Time:
But that the dread of something after death,
But that this folly doubts it.
But the great Cannon to the Clowds shall tell,
But this eternall blason must not be
But this most foule, strange, and vnnaturall
But to confront the visage of Offence?
But to recouer of vs by strong hand
But two months dead: Nay, not so much; not two,
But we will ship him hence, and this vilde deed,
But what in faith make you from Wittemberge?
But what is your affaire in Elsenour?
But what we do determine, oft we breake:
But wilt thou heare me how I did proceed?
But with a crafty Madnesse keepes aloofe:
But with the whiffe and winde of his fell Sword,
But woe is me, you are so sicke of late,
But would you were not so. You are my Mother
But you'l be secret?
But you must know, your Father lost a Father,
Buyes out the Law; but 'tis not so aboue,
By Cocke they are too blame.
By Heauen, thy madnesse shall be payed by waight,
By Heau'n, Ile make a Ghost of him that lets me:
By Letters coniuring to that effect
By and by
By desperate appliance are releeued,
By gis, and by S[aint]. Charity,
By his Cockle hat and staffe, and his Sandal shoone
By indirections finde directions out:
Byrlady your Ladiship is neerer Heauen then when
By their opprest and feare-surprized eyes,
By this encompassement and drift of question,
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
By what is fed on; and yet within a month?
Calfe there. Be the Players ready?
Cals Vertue Hypocrite, takes off the Rose
Can serue my turne? Forgiue me my foule Murther:
   Cap. I will doo't, my Lord
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds,
Cap, we are not the very Button
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project").  Among other
Carue for himselfe; for, on his choyce depends
Chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thicke, to this
Champaign, IL 61825
Chaplesse, and knockt about the Mazard with a Sextons
Claimes the conueyance of a promis'd March
Clambring to hang; an enuious sliuer broke,
   Clo. A pestilence on him for a mad Rogue, a pour'd a
  Clo. A whoreson mad Fellowes it was;
  Clo. Cannot you tell that? euery foole can tell that:
  Clo. Cudgell thy braines no more about it; for your
  Clo. E'ene that
  Clo. Faith e'ene with loosing his wits
  Clo. For no man Sir
  Clo. For none neither
  Clo. He was the first that euer bore Armes
   Clo. How can that be, vnlesse she drowned her selfe in
  Clo. Ifaith, if he be not rotten before he die (as we haue
   Clo. I like thy wit well in good faith, the Gallowes
  Clo. I marry is't, Crowners Quest Law
  Clo. I, tell me that, and vnyoake
   Clo. It must be Se offendendo, it cannot bee else: for
  Clo. Mine Sir:
  Clo. Of all the dayes i'th' yeare, I came too't that day
  Clo. One that was a woman Sir; but rest her Soule,
   Clo. 'Tis a quicke lye Sir, 'twill away againe from me
   Clo. Too't
  Clo. 'Twill not be seene in him, there the men are as
  Clo. Very strangely they say
   Clo. What, ar't a Heathen? how doth thou vnderstand
   Clo. What is he that builds stronger then either the
  Clo. Why, because he was mad; hee shall recouer his
  Clo. Why heere in Denmarke: I haue bin sixeteene
  Clo. Why sir, his hide is so tan'd with his Trade, that
   Clo. Why there thou say'st. And the more pitty that
   Clo. You lye out on't Sir, and therefore it is not yours:
   Clown. Giue me leaue; heere lies the water; good:
  Clown. Is she to bee buried in Christian buriall, that
   Clowne sings. A Pickhaxe and a Spade, a Spade,
   Clowne sings. But Age with his stealing steps
Coach: Goodnight Ladies: Goodnight sweet Ladies:
Colleagued with the dreame of his Aduantage;
Collected from all Simples that haue Vertue
Come: Another hit; what say you?
Come Gertrude, wee'l call vp our wisest friends,
Come, I will giue you way for these your Letters,
Comedie, Historie, Pastorall:
Come hither Gentlemen,
Come, my Spade; there is no ancient Gentlemen,
Come one you here this fellow in the selleredge
Come short of what he did
Come sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Come some Musicke
Comes reading
Complexion
Conceit in weakest bodies, strongest workes.
Confederate season, else, no Creature seeing:
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed,
Coniure the wandring Starres, and makes them stand
Conscience and Grace, to the profoundest Pit.
Consent to sweare
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Conuert his Gyues to Graces. So that my Arrowes
Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy;
Couch we a while, and mark
Could force his soule so to his whole conceit,
Could not (with all there quantitie of Loue)
Could you on this faire Mountaine leaue to feed,
Cousen Hamlet, you know the wager
Cries Cuckold to my Father, brands the Harlot
Crowne, kisses it, and powres poyson in the Kings eares, and
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from Heauen to Earth,
Cut off euen in the Blossomes of my Sinne,
DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
Damned Dane,
Dar'd to the Combate. In which, our Valiant Hamlet,
David Reed
Deere Maid, kinde Sister, sweet Ophelia:
Delay it not, Ile haue him hence to night.
Deliberate pause, diseases desperate growne,
Denmarke, and those that would make mowes at him
Depriu'd thee of. Hold off the earth a while,
Deuis'd a new Commission, wrote it faire,
Deuoutly to be wish'd. To dye to sleepe,
Did Hamlet so envenom with his Enuy,
Did coldly furnish forth the Marriage Tables;
Did forfeite (with his life) all those his Lands
Did slay this Fortinbras: who by a Seal'd Compact,
Did sometimes march: By Heauen I charge thee speake
Did the King sighe, but with a generall grone
Dies not alone; but like a Gulfe doth draw
Directly seasons him his Enemie.
Discomfort you (my Lord) it nothing must:
Discretion be your Tutor. Sute the Action to the Word,
Diuided from her selfe, and her faire Iudgement,
Do I impart towards you. For your intent
Doe not as some vngracious Pastors doe,
Doe not beleeue his vowes; for they are Broakers,
Doe you beleeue his tenders, as you call them?
Do not for euer with thy veyled lids
Do not it selfe vnkennell in one speech,
Doom'd for a certaine terme to walke the night;
Do's not diuide the Sunday from the weeke,
Dost thou heare me old Friend, can you play the
Doth by their owne insinuation grow:
Doth make the Night ioynt-Labourer with the day:
Doth rend the Region. So after Pyrrhus pause,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding Throate
Doubt Truth to be a Lier,
Doubt, that the Sunne doth moue:
Doubt thou, the Starres are fire,
Do ye heare, let them be well vs'd: for they are
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
Drinke off this Potion: Is thy Vnion heere?
Drugges fit, and Time agreeing:
Ducates a peece, for his picture in Little. There is something
Dyes
Dyes.
     *EITHER*:
*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*
Each opposite that blankes the face of ioy,
Each small annexment, pettie consequence
Each toy seemes Prologue, to some great amisse,
Eates not the Flats with more impittious haste
England. Farewell deere Mother
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter Barnardo and Francisco two Centinels.
Enter Claudius King of Denmarke, Gertrude the Queene, Hamlet,
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassador, with Drumme, Colours,
Enter Fortinbras with an Armie.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost againe.
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, Marcellus.
Enter Hamlet and Guildensterne.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio
Enter Hamlet and Horatio a farre off.
Enter Hamlet, and two or three of the Players.
Enter Hamlet reading on a Booke.
Enter Horatio.
Enter Horatio, Barnardo, and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio, with an Attendant.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter King, Queene, Laertes and Lords, with other Attendants with
Enter King, Queene, Laertes, and a Coffin, with Lords attendant.
Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
Enter King, Queene, Rosincrane, and Guildensterne Cum alijs.
Enter King, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.
Enter King and Laertes.
Enter King, and Polonius.
Enter King and his Queene.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
Enter Lucianus.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia distracted.
Enter Osricke.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.
Enter Polonius, Voltumand, and Cornelius.
Enter Polonius, and Reynoldo.
Enter Prologue.
Enter Queene.
Enter Queene and Horatio.
Enter Queene and Polonius.
Enter Ros. & Guild.
Enter Ros. and Guildensterne.
Enter Rosincran and Guildensterne.
Enter Rosincrance and Guildensterne.
Enter Rosincrane.
Enter Saylor.
Enter Voltemand and Cornelius.
Enter a King and Queene, very louingly; the Queene embracing
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Messenger.
Enter foure or fiue Players.
Enter one with a Recorder.
Enter the Ghost.
Enter two Clownes.
Enter young Osricke.
Epitaph is, For o, For o, the Hoby-horse is forgot.
Ere I could make a Prologue to my braines,
Ere I had euer seene that day Horatio.
Ere yet the salt of most vnrighteous Teares
**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
Euen heere betweene the chaste vnsmirched brow
Euen in their promise, as it is a making;
Euen on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Euen to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Euen whiles mens mindes are wilde,
Euen with the verie Comment of my Soule
Example FTP session:
Exchange forgiuenesse with me, Noble Hamlet;
Executive Director
Executive Director's Notes:
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt. Gent.
Exeunt. Ghost & Hamlet.
Exeunt. Marching: after the which, a Peale of Ordenance are shot
Exeunt. Ophelia
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit Ambass.
Exit Fran.
Exit Gent.
Exit Ghost.
Exit Hamlet.
Exit Hamlet tugging in Polonius.
Exit King & Queen.
Exit Laer.
Exit Messenger
Exit Players.
Exit Polon.
Exit Polonius.
Exit Voltemand and Cornelius.
Exits. The
Exit the Ghost.
Extorted Treasure in the wombe of Earth,
Eyes. When I shall (first asking your Pardon thereunto) recount
FINIS. The tragedie of HAMLET, Prince of Denmarke.
Fall ten times trebble, on that cursed head
Falne on the Inuentors head. All this can I
Farewell, and let your hast commend your duty
Farewell: my Blessing season this in thee
Fare you well my Doue
Feare it Ophelia, feare it my deare Sister,
Feature, Scorne her owne Image, and the verie Age and
Fell in the weeping Brooke, her cloathes spred wide,
Fell into a Sadnesse, then into a Fast,
Fellowes as I do, crawling betweene Heauen and Earth.
Fellowes some meanes to the King: They haue Letters
Fie on't? Oh fie, fie, 'tis an vnweeded Garden
Files by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]
Finger'd their Packet, and in fine, withdrew
First Folio editions' best pages.
Fixt on the Somnet of the highest Mount.
Flaggon of Renish on my head once. This same Scull
Flourish for the Players.
Folded the Writ vp in forme of the other,
Follow my Mother.
For Art and exercise in your defence;
For England
For Foode and Diet, to some Enterprize
  For. Go Captaine, from me greet the Danish King,
   For. Go safely on.
For Hecuba?
   For. His quarry cries on hauocke. Oh proud death,
For Husband shalt thou-
For I mine eyes will riuet to his Face:
   For. Let foure Captaines
   For. Let vs hast to heare it,
For Murther, though it haue no tongue, will speake
For bearing of this greeting to old Norway,
For bonny sweet Robin is all my ioy
For by the image of my Cause, I see
Fore do it owne life; 'twas some Estate.
For euery man ha's businesse and desire,
For good Polonius death; and we haue done but greenly
For hee himselfe is subiect to his Birth:
For her perfections. But my reuenge will come
For he was likely, had he beene put on
For if the King like not the Comedie,
For in that sleepe of death, what dreames may come,
For in the fatnesse of this pursie times,
For it is as the Ayre, invulnerable,
For like the Hecticke in my blood he rages,
For lone oft loses both it selfe and friend:
Forme of the thing; each word made true and good,
For me, with sorrow, I embrace my Fortune,
For nature cressant does not grow alone,
For out adores he went without their helpe;
For she may strew dangerous coniectures
For some must watch, while some must sleepe;
(For so this side of our knowne world esteem'd him)
For that which thou hast done, must send thee hence
Forth at your eyes, your spirits wildely peepe,
For the Apparell oft proclaimes the man.
For the demand of our neglected Tribute:
For these and other matters, please mail to:
For the supply and profit of our Hope,
For they are actions that a man might play:
For this effect defectiue, comes by cause,
For thou dost know: Oh Damon deere,
  Fortin. Where is this sight?
For 'tis a question left vs yet to proue,
For vs, and for our Tragedie,
For we haue closely sent for Hamlet hither,
For we will Fetters put vpon this feare,
For what aduancement may I hope from thee,
For, what we know must be, and is as common
(For which, they say, you Spirits oft walke in death)
For who not needs, shall neuer lacke a Frend:
For who that's but a Queene, faire, sober, wise,
For who would beare the Whips and Scornes of time,
For womens Feare and Loue, holds quantitie,
For your desire to know what is betweene vs,
Foyles,
  Fra. Barnardo ha's my place: giue you goodnight.
   Fran. Barnardo?
   Fran. For this releefe much thankes: 'Tis bitter cold,
   Fran. Giue you good night
  Fran. I thinke I heare them. Stand: who's there?
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
  Fran. Not a Mouse stirring
   Fran. You come most carefully vpon your houre
Free me so farre in your most generous thoughts,
Friends both go ioyne you with some further ayde:
From fashion of himselfe. What thinke you on't?
From me, whose loue was of that dignity,
From the faire forehead of an innocent loue,
From the first Coarse, till he that dyed to day,
From whence, though willingly I came to Denmarke
Froward, not permanent; sweet not lasting
GET GUTINDEX.ALL [to get a listing of ALL books]
GET GUTINDEX.??  [to get a year's listing of books, e.g., GUTINDEX.99]
'Gainst Fortunes State, would Treason haue pronounc'd?
   Gen. Good my Lord be quiet
Generall: but it was (as I receiu'd it, and others, whose
Geneva Bible and Shakespeare's First Folio and have unified
   Gentlemen within. Hamlet, Lord Hamlet
Get from him why he puts on this Confusion:
Get you a place
  Gho. I am thy Fathers Spirit,
   Gho. Marke me
   Gho. My hower is almost come,
   Gho. Pitty me not, but lend thy serious hearing
  Gho. Reuenge his foule and most vnnaturall Murther
   Gho. So art thou to reuenge, when thou shalt heare
   Gho. Sweare
   Gho. Sweare
   Gho. Sweare.
   Ghost. Do not forget: this Visitation
   Ghost. I finde thee apt,
  Ghost. I that incestuous, that adulterate Beast
  Ghost. Murther most foule, as in the best it is;
   Ghost. Sweare
Ghost beckens Hamlet.
Ghost cries vnder the Stage.
Gifts, she seemes loath and vnwilling awhile, but in the end,
Giue euery man thine eare; but few thy voyce:
Giue her good watch I pray you:
Giue him a further edge, and driue his purpose on
Giue it an vnderstanding but no tongue;
Giue me one poore request
Giue me the Cups,
Giuen priuate time to you; and you your selfe
Giues him three thousand Crownes in Annuall Fee,
Giues me superfluous death.
Giues the tongue vowes: these blazes, Daughter,
Giue vs the Foyles: Come on
Giuing more light then heate; extinct in both,
Giuing to you no further personall power
Go, Farewell. Or if thou wilt needs Marry, marry a fool:
Go, bid the Souldiers shoote.
God buy ye.
God has giuen you one pace, and you make your selfe another:
Gods creatures, and make your Wantonnesse, your Ignorance.
God willing shall not lacke: let vs goe in together,
Goes slow and stately: By them thrice he walkt,
Good Gertrude set some watch ouer your Sonne,
Good night Mother.
Good night, but go not to mine Vnkles bed,
Goodnight, goodnight.
Goodnight sweet Prince,
Good sir, or so, or friend, or Gentleman.
Goose-quils, and dare scarse come thither
Go seeke him out, speake faire, and bring the body
Go some of ye,
Go too, Ile no more on't, it hath made me mad.
Go to your rest, at night wee'l Feast together.
Gramercy on his Soule.
Grapple them to thy Soule, with hoopes of Steele:
Grating so harshly all his dayes of quiet
Graue, to tell vs this
Greefe ioyes, Ioy greeues on slender accident.
Grop'd I to finde out them; had my desire,
Groundlings: who (for the most part) are capeable of
Growes wide withall. Perhaps he loues you now,
  Guil. Faith, her priuates, we
   Guil. Heauens make our presence and our practises
   Guil. In what my deere Lord?
   Guil. My Lord, we were sent for
   Guil. Nor do we finde him forward to be sounded,
  Guil. Prison, my Lord?
  Guil. There are the Players
   Guil. We both obey,
   Guil. What should we say my Lord?
   Guil. Which dreames indeed are Ambition: for the
  Guild. A thing my Lord?
   Guild. Beleeue me, I cannot
   Guild. But these cannot I command to any vtterance
   Guild. But with much forcing of his disposition
   Guild. Good my Lord put your discourse into some
   Guild. Good my Lord, vouchsafe me a word with you
   Guild. Happy, in that we are not ouer-happy: on Fortunes
   Guild. I know no touch of it, my Lord
  Guild. Is in his retyrement, maruellous distemper'd
   Guild. Mine honour'd Lord?
  Guild. My Lord, I cannot
   Guild. Nay, good my Lord, this courtesie is not of
  Guild. No my Lord, rather with choller
  Guild. Oh there ha's beene much throwing about of
  Guild. O my Lord, if my Dutie be too bold, my loue
   Guild. The King, sir
   Guild. The Queene your Mother, in most great affliction
   Guild. We will our selues prouide:
   Guild. What, my Lord?
Guildenstern, and
Guildensterne? Oh, Rosincrane; good Lads: How doe ye
Guildensterne, and
Gumme: and that they haue a plentifull locke of Wit,
   Ha. No good Mother, here's Mettle more attractiue
  Ha. Why, As by lot, God wot: and then you know, It
Ha? Why I should take it: for it cannot be,
Had I but time (as this fell Sergeant death
Had he bin Vanquisher, as by the same Cou'nant
Had he the Motiue and the Cue for passion
Had it th' abilitie of life to thanke you:
Had left the flushing of her gauled eyes,
Had made his course t' illume that part of Heauen
Had witchcraft in't; he grew into his Seat,
  Ham. A King of shreds and patches.
   Ham. A Murderer, and a Villaine:
  Ham. A bloody deed, almost as bad good Mother,
   Ham. A dreame it selfe is but a shadow
   Ham. A goodly one, in which there are many Confines,
  Ham. Ah ha boy, sayest thou so. Art thou there truepenny?
   Ham. Alas poore Ghost
  Ham. A little more then kin, and lesse then kinde
   Ham. Am I not i'th' right old Iephta?
   Ham. And fixt his eyes vpon you?
   Ham. And smelt so? Puh
   Ham. And therefore as a stranger giue it welcome.
   Ham. And what did you enact?
   Ham. An earnest Coniuration from the King,
   Ham. Angels and Ministers of Grace defend vs:
   Ham. Are you faire?
   Ham. Arm'd, say you?
   Ham. As Womans loue.
   Ham. As th'art a man, giue me the Cup.
  Ham. At Supper
   Ham. A whole one I,
   Ham. Begger that I am, I am euen poore in thankes;
   Ham. Being thus benetted round with Villaines,
   Ham. Be not too tame neyther: but let your owne
  Ham. Betweene who?
   Ham. Bid the Players make hast.
   Ham. But where was this?
   Ham. Buzze, buzze
  Ham. By and by, is easily said. Leaue me Friends:
   Ham. Come, come, and sit you downe, you shall not
   Ham. Come for the third.
   Ham. Come on sir
   Ham. Come show me what thou'lt doe.
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis Kinne
  Ham. Denmark's a Prison
   Ham. Did you not speake to it?
  Ham. Does it not, thinkst thee, stand me now vpon
  Ham. Doe they hold the same estimation they did
   Ham. Do not beleeue it
  Ham. Dost thou thinke Alexander lookt o'this fashion
   Ham. Do the Boyes carry it away?
   Ham. Do you not come your tardy Sonne to chide,
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
   Ham. Do you see that Clowd? that's almost in shape
   Ham. Do you thinke I meant Country matters?
  Ham. Excellent Ifaith, of the Camelions dish: I eate
  Ham. Excellent, excellent well: y'are a Fishmonger
   Ham. Extasie?
  Ham. Follow him Friends: wee'l heare a play to morrow.
   Ham. For England?
   Ham. For Heauens loue let me heare
   Ham. For if the Sun breed Magots in a dead dogge,
   Ham. From top to toe?
   Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcom to Elsonower: your
   Ham. Get thee to a Nunnerie. Why would'st thou
   Ham. Giue me your pardon Sir, I'ue done you wrong,
   Ham. Gods bodykins man, better. Vse euerie man
   Ham. Go, go, you question with an idle tongue
   Ham. Good
   Ham. Good Madam
   Ham. Ha, ha: Are you honest?
   Ham. Hast, hast me to know it,
   Ham. Ha's this fellow no feeling of his businesse, that
   Ham. Heare you Sir:
   Ham. Hearke you Guildensterne, and you too: at each
  Ham. Heauen make thee free of it, I follow thee.
   Ham. He did Complie with his Dugge before hee
   Ham. Heere thou incestuous, murdrous,
  Ham. He poysons him i'th' Garden for's estate: His
  Ham. Here's the Commission, read it at more leysure:
   Ham. He that playes the King shall be welcome; his
   Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all:
   Ham. He will stay till ye come
   Ham. Hic & vbique? Then wee'l shift for grownd,
   Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy; come bird, come
   Ham. His Beard was grisly? no
   Ham. Hold off your hand
   Ham. Horatio, thou art eene as iust a man
   Ham. How absolute the knaue is? wee must speake
   Ham. How came he mad?
   Ham. How chances it they trauaile? their residence
   Ham. How comes it? doe they grow rusty?
   Ham. How does the Queene?
   Ham. How if I answere no?
   Ham. How is it with you Lady?
   Ham. How long is that since?
   Ham. How long will a man lie i'th' earth ere he rot?
   Ham. How now, a Rat? dead for a Ducate, dead
   Ham. How say you then, would heart of man once think it?
   Ham. How strangely?
  Ham. I Lady, 'twas my word.
   Ham. I Madam, it is common
  Ham. I am but mad North, North-West: when the
   Ham. I am glad of it: a knauish speech sleepes in a
   Ham. I am glad to see you well:
   Ham. I am tame Sir, pronounce
   Ham. I am very glad to see you: good euen Sir.
   Ham. I beseech you remember
  Ham. I, but while the grasse growes, the Prouerbe is
   Ham. I could interpret betweene you and your loue:
   Ham. I dare not drinke yet Madam,
   Ham. I do beseech you
   Ham. I do embrace it freely,
   Ham. I doe not thinke so, since he went into France,
   Ham. I do not well vnderstand that. Will you play
   Ham. If it assume my noble Fathers person,
   Ham. If she should breake it now
   Ham. If thou doest Marry, Ile giue thee this Plague
   Ham. I haue heard of your pratlings too wel enough.
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
  Ham. I humbly thanke you: well, well, well
   Ham. I humbly thank you Sir, dost know this waterflie?
   Ham. Ile be your foile Laertes, in mine ignorance,
  Ham. Ile play this bout first, set by a-while.
   Ham. Ile watch to Night; perchance 'twill wake againe
  Ham. I lou'd Ophelia; fortie thousand Brothers
  Ham. I marry ist;
   Ham. I marry, why was he sent into England?
   Ham. I meane, my Head vpon your Lap?
   Ham. I'm sorry they offend you heartily:
   Ham. I must to England, you know that?
   Ham. Indeed, indeed Sirs; but this troubles me.
   Ham. Indeed, vpon my sword, Indeed
   Ham. In heauen, send thither to see. If your Messenger
  Ham. In my minds eye (Horatio)
   Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? Oh, most true:
  Ham. Into my Graue?
  Ham. I, or any shew that you'l shew him. Bee not
   Ham. I pray thee doe not mock me (fellow Student)
   Ham. I pray you
   Ham. I see a Cherube that see's him: but come, for
   Ham. I shall in all my best
  Ham. I sir, that sokes vp the Kings Countenance, his
  Ham. I sir, to be honest as this world goes, is to bee
   Ham. I sir, what of him?
   Ham. Is not Parchment made of Sheep-skinnes?
  Ham. I so, God buy'ye: Now I am alone.
   Ham. Is this a Prologue, or the Poesie of a Ring?
   Ham. Is't possible?
   Ham. I thinke it be thine indeed: for thou liest in't
   Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kinde of
   Ham. It is not strange: for mine Vnckle is King of
  Ham. I trulie: for the power of Beautie, will sooner
   Ham. It shall to'th Barbars, with your beard. Prythee
  Ham. It wafts me still: goe on, Ile follow thee
   Ham. It was a bruite part of him, to kill so Capitall a
   Ham. It will be short,
   Ham. It will not speake: then will I follow it
   Ham. It would cost you a groaning, to take off my
   Ham. Iudgement
   Ham. I will
   Ham. I will Prophesie. Hee comes to tell me of the
   Ham. I will receiue it with all diligence of spirit; put
   Ham. I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
   Ham. I would I had beene there
   Ham. I would not haue your Enemy say so;
  Ham. Ladie, shall I lye in your Lap?
   Ham. Let her not walke i'thSunne: Conception is a
   Ham. Let me see. Alas poore Yorick, I knew him Horatio,
   Ham. Let the doores be shut vpon him, that he may
   Ham. Looke heere vpon this Picture, and on this,
  Ham. Madam, how like you this Play?
  Ham. Make you a wholsome answere: my wits diseas'd.
  Ham. Marry this is Miching Malicho, that meanes
   Ham. Mee thinkes it is very soultry, and hot for my
   Ham. Me thinkes it is like a Weazell
   Ham. Mother, you haue my Father much offended
   Ham. Murther?
   Ham. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you.
  Ham. My excellent good friends? How do'st thou
   Ham. My fate cries out,
  Ham. Nay, I know not
  Ham. Nay I know not, is it the King?
   Ham. Nay, but swear't
   Ham. Nay, but to liue
   Ham. Nay come, againe
   Ham. Nay, do not thinke I flatter:
   Ham. Nay that followes not
  Ham. Nay then I haue an eye of you: if you loue me
   Ham. Neuer make known what you haue seen to night
   Ham. Neuer to speake of this that you haue seene.
   Ham. No, beleeue mee 'tis very cold, the winde is
  Ham. No by the Rood, not so:
   Ham. No by this hand
   Ham. No faith, not a iot. But to follow him thether
   Ham. No, no, I neuer gaue you ought
   Ham. No, nor mine. Now my Lord, you plaid once
  Ham. No, no, they do but iest, poyson in iest, no Offence
   Ham. Nor did you nothing heare?
   Ham. Nor the Soales of her Shoo?
   Ham. No such matter. I will not sort you with the
   Ham. Not a whit, we defie Augury; there's a speciall
  Ham. Nothing
  Ham. Nothing but to shew you how a King may go
  Ham. Not so my Lord, I am too much i'th' Sun
  Ham. Not this by no meanes that I bid you do:
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten, a certaine
  Ham. Now Mother, what's the matter?
  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying,
   Ham. No you'l reueale it
   Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell, and
   Ham. O I dye Horatio:
   Ham. O Iephta Iudge of Israel, what a Treasure had'st
  Ham. Of nothing: bring me to him, hide Fox, and all
   Ham. Oh God, your onely Iigge-maker: what should
   Ham. Oh Heauen!
   Ham. Oh Villany! How? Let the doore be lock'd.
  Ham. Oh all you host of Heauen! Oh Earth; what els?
   Ham. Oh but shee'l keepe her word
   Ham. Oh good Horatio, Ile take the Ghosts word for
  Ham. Oh, ha? Come some Musick. Come y Recorders:
  Ham. Oh that this too too solid Flesh, would melt,
  Ham. Oh wonderfull!
   Ham. Oh wonderfull Sonne, that can so astonish a
   Ham. O my Propheticke soule: mine Vncle?
  Ham. One
  Ham. On him, on him: look you how pale he glares,
   Ham. O reforme it altogether. And let those that
   Ham. Or like a Whale?
   Ham. Or of a Courtier, which could say, Good Morrow
   Ham. O throw away the worser part of it,
   Ham. Pale, or red?
   Ham. Rest, rest perturbed Spirit: so Gentlemen,
  Ham. Safely stowed
   Ham. Saw? Who?
   Ham. Seemes Madam? Nay, it is: I know not Seemes:
   Ham. Sir, I cannot
   Ham. Sir I lacke Aduancement
   Ham. Sir, I will walke heere in the Hall; if it please
   Ham. Sir, a whole History
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kinde of fighting,
   Ham. Sir my good friend,
   Ham. Slanders Sir: for the Satyricall slaue saies here,
   Ham. So I do still, by these pickers and stealers
   Ham. So long? Nay then let the Diuel weare blacke,
   Ham. So much for this Sir; now let me see the other,
   Ham. So you mistake Husbands.
   Ham. Speake, I am bound to heare
  Ham. Speake the Speech I pray you, as I pronounc'd
  Ham. Such an Act
  Ham. That I can keepe your counsell, and not mine
   Ham. That Scull had a tongue in it, and could sing
  Ham. That if you be honest and faire, your Honesty
  Ham. That is Laertes, a very Noble youth: Marke
   Ham. That's a faire thought to ly betweene Maids legs
   Ham. That's two of his weapons; but well
  Ham. That you must teach me: but let mee coniure
  Ham. The Ayre bites shrewdly: is it very cold?
  Ham. The King doth wake to night, and takes his rouse,
   Ham. The King my Father?
  Ham. The Mouse-trap: Marry how? Tropically:
   Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not
   Ham. The inobled Queene?
   Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man
   Ham. Then are our Beggers bodies; and our Monarchs
   Ham. Then can each Actor on his Asse-
   Ham. Then is Doomesday neere: But your newes is
   Ham. Then saw you not his face?
   Ham. Then will I come to my Mother, by and by:
   Ham. Then you liue about her waste, or in the middle
   Ham. The phrase would bee more Germaine to the
   Ham. The point envenom'd too,
   Ham. There's another: why might not that bee the
   Ham. There's nere a villaine dwelling in all Denmarke
   Ham. These tedious old fooles
   Ham. They are Sheepe and Calues that seek out assurance
  Ham. They are comming to the Play: I must be idle.
   Ham. This?
   Ham. This likes me well,
   Ham. This man shall set me packing:
   Ham. Thou dost lye in't, to be in't and say 'tis thine:
   Ham. Thou prai'st not well,
   Ham. Thrift thrift Horatio: the Funerall Bakt-meats
   Ham. Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
   Ham. 'Tis as easie as lying: gouerne these Ventiges
   Ham. 'Tis ee'n so; the hand of little Imployment hath
   Ham. Tis very strange
   Ham. 'Tis well, Ile haue thee speake out the rest,
  Ham. To be, or not to be, that is the Question:
  Ham. To this effect Sir, after what flourish your nature
   Ham. To what base vses we may returne Horatio.
   Ham. Verie well my Lord,
   Ham. Very like, very like: staid it long?
   Ham. Very well. Follow that Lord, and looke you
   Ham. Vp from my Cabin
   Ham. Vpon my sword
   Ham. Vpon the talke of the poysoning?
   Ham. Vpon what ground?
   Ham. Wee'l ha't to morrow night. You could for a
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy
   Ham. Well said old Mole, can'st worke i'th' ground so fast?
  Ham. We shall know by these Fellowes: the Players
   Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our Mother.
   Ham. What?
   Ham. What are they Children? Who maintains 'em?
   Ham. What call you the Carriages?
   Ham. What, frighted with false fire
  Ham. What hoa, Horatio?
   Ham. What hower now?
   Ham. What is he, whose griefes
   Ham. What, lookt he frowningly?
   Ham. What man dost thou digge it for?
   Ham. What noise? Who cals on Hamlet?
   Ham. What's his weapon?
  Ham. Whats the matter now?
  Ham. What, the faire Ophelia?
   Ham. What woman then?
  Ham. Where wilt thou lead me? speak; Ile go no further
  Ham. Who I?
   Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
   Ham. Whose was it?
   Ham. Why?
   Ham. Why I will fight with him vppon this Theme.
  Ham. Why any thing. But to the purpose; you were
   Ham. Why did you laugh, when I said, Man delights
   Ham. Why ee'n so: and now my Lady Wormes,
  Ham. Why, euen in that was Heauen ordinate;
   Ham. Why he, more then another?
  Ham. Why let the strucken Deere go weepe,
   Ham. Why looke you now, how vnworthy a thing
   Ham. Why look you there: looke how it steals away:
   Ham. Why man, they did make loue to this imployment
  Ham. Why one faire Daughter, and no more,
   Ham. Why right, you are i'th' right;
   Ham. Why then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
   Ham. Why, what should be the feare?
   Ham. With drinke Sir?
  Ham. Words, words, words
   Ham. Wormwood, Wormwood
   Ham. Yes, by Saint Patricke, but there is my Lord,
   Ham. You are welcome
   Ham. You cannot Sir take from me any thing, that I
   Ham. Your loue, as mine to you: farewell.
   Ham. Yours, yours; hee does well to commend it
   Ham. Your wisedome should shew it selfe more richer,
   Ham. You should not haue beleeued me. For vertue
Hamlet.
Hamlet.
   Hamlet. My Mother: Father and Mother is man and
Hamlet comes backe: what would you vndertake,
Hamlet in madnesse hath Polonius slaine,
Hamlet is of the Faction that is wrong'd,
Hamlet return'd, shall know you are come home:
Hamlet the Dane
Hamlet, this Pearle is thine,
Hamlet, thou art slaine,
   Ham. within. Mother, mother, mother
Hangers or so: three of the Carriages infaith are very
Haply the Seas and Countries different
Hath giuen me this: now gather, and surmise.
Hath in the skirts of Norway, heere and there,
Hath now this dread and blacke Complexion smear'd
Hath op'd his ponderous and Marble iawes,
Hath seal'd thee for her selfe. For thou hast bene
Hath 'tane with equall Thankes. And blest are those,
Hath turn'd it selfe on me. Loe, heere I lye,
Haue I of Ladies most deiect and wretched,
Haue burst their cerments, why the Sepulcher
Haue by the very cunning of the Scoene,
Haue of your audience beene most free and bounteous.
Haue we, as 'twere, with a defeated ioy,
Haue you a daughter?
Haue you any further Trade with vs?
Haue you so slander any moment leisure,
Hauing euer seene. In the prenominate crimes,
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourely grow
He closes with you in this consequence:
He closes with you thus. I know the Gentleman,
He does: what was I about to say?
Hee may not, as vnuallued persons doe,
Heere in the cheere and comfort of our eye,
Heere is your Husband, like a Mildew'd eare
Heere's a Napkin, rub thy browes,
Heere stooping to your Clemencie:
Heere's yet some Liquor left
Hee's loued of the distracted multitude,
He fals to such perusall of my face,
He hath not fayl'd to pester vs with Message,
He hath one twelue for mine, and that would come to
He is dead and gone Lady, he is dead and gone,
He is gone, he is gone, and we cast away mone,
Helpe, helpe, hoa
He may approue our eyes, and speake to it
He neuer gaue command'ment for their death.
He neuer wil come againe.
Her Brother is in secret come from France,
Her Maiden strewments, and the bringing home
He rais'd a sigh, so pittious and profound,
Herbe-Grace a Sundaies: Oh you must weare your Rew
Here as before, neuer so helpe you mercy,
Here's to thy health. Giue him the cup,
Here was a Gentleman of Normandy,
He seem'd to finde his way without his eyes,
He should the bearers put to sodaine death,
He smot the sledded Pollax on the Ice.
He tels me my sweet Queene, that he hath found
He that hath kil'd my King, and whor'd my Mother,
He that thou knowest thine,
He tooke my Father grossely, full of bread,
He walkes foure houres together, heere
He whips his Rapier out, and cries a Rat, a Rat,
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony:
High and Mighty, you shall know I am set naked on your
High on a stage be placed to the view,
Himselfe, the Primrose path of dalliance treads,
Hiperion to a Satyre: so louing to my Mother,
His Beard as white as Snow,
His Cannon 'gainst Selfe-slaughter. O God, O God!
His Fathers death, and our o're-hasty Marriage.
His Liberty is full of threats to all,
His Nephewes Leuies, which to him appear'd
His accesse to me
His fell to Hamlet. Now sir, young Fortinbras,
His forme and cause conioyn'd, preaching to stones,
His further gate heerein. In that the Leuies,
His greatnesse weigh'd, his will is not his owne;
His madnesse is poore Hamlets Enemy.
His meanes of death, his obscure buriall;
His silence will sit drooping
Ho Guildenstern:
Hoboyes play. The dumbe shew enters.
Holding a weake supposall of our worth;
Hold it a fashion and a toy in Bloude;
Holds such an enmity with bloud of Man,
Hold you the watch to Night?
[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
Honour'd, belou'd, and haply, one as kinde.
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow then in anger
   Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
  Hor. A peece of him
   Hor. As I doe liue my honourd Lord 'tis true;
  Hor. As thou art to thy selfe,
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my Lord
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this beleeue
   Hor. Be rul'd, you shall not goe
  Hor. Custome hath made it in him a property of easinesse
   Hor. Doe not my Lord
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand
  Hor. E'ene so
   Hor. E'ene so, my Lord
  Hor. Friends to this ground
  Hor. Good my Lord tell it
  Hor. Haile to your Lordship
   Hor. Halfe a share
   Hor. Haue after, to what issue will this come?
   Hor. Heauen secure him
   Hor. Heauen will direct it
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination
   Hor. How was this seal'd?
  Hor. I beseech you
   Hor. If your minde dislike any thing, obey. I will forestall
  Hor. I, good my Lord
   Hor. Illo, ho, ho, my Lord
  Hor. I, my Lord
  Hor. I my Lord, and of Calue-skinnes too
   Hor. Indeed I heard it not: then it drawes neere the season,
   Hor. Indeed my Lord, it followed hard vpon
   Hor. Infaith my Lord, not I
   Hor. In what particular thought to work, I know not:
  Hor. I saw him once; he was a goodly King
   Hor. Ist possible?
  Hor. It beckons you to goe away with it,
  Hor. I thinke it lacks of twelue
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager ayre
  Hor. It might, my Lord
   Hor. It must be shortly knowne to him from England
   Hor. It was, as I haue seene it in his life,
   Hor. It would haue much amaz'd you
   Hor. I warrant you it will
   Hor. Let him blesse thee too
   Hor. Let them come in,
  Hor. Looke my Lord, it comes
   Hor. & Mar. within. My Lord, my Lord.
  Hor. Most constantly
   Hor. My Lord, I came to see your Fathers Funerall
  Hor. My Lord, I did;
   Hor. My Lord, I thinke I saw him yesternight
  Hor. My Lord, the King your Father
   Hor. Nay, good my Lord
  Hor. Nay very pale
   Hor. Neuer beleeue it.
   Hor. No, by no meanes
  Hor. No my good Lord
   Hor. Not I, my Lord, by Heauen
  Hor. Not a iot more, my Lord
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
   Hor. Not when I saw't
  Hor. Of that I shall haue alwayes cause to speake,
   Hor. Oh day and night: but this is wondrous strange
   Hor. Oh where my Lord?
  Hor. O yes, my Lord, he wore his Beauer vp
   Hor. Peace, who comes heere?
   Hor. Propose the Oath my Lord
   Hor. Remember it my Lord?
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
   Hor. She is importunate, indeed distract, her moode
  Hor. She speakes much of her Father; saies she heares
   Hor. So Guildensterne and Rosincrance, go too't
   Hor. So haue I heard, and do in part beleeue it.
   Hor. Stay: speake; speake: I Charge thee, speake.
  Hor. That can I,
   Hor. That is most certaine
   Hor. There needs no Ghost my Lord, come from the
   Hor. There's no offence my Lord
   Hor. The same my Lord,
   Hor. These are but wild and hurling words, my Lord
   Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is't my Lord?
   Hor. This Lapwing runs away with the shell on his
   Hor. 'Tis heere
   Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appeare
   Hor. 'Twere to consider: to curiously to consider so
   Hor. Two nights together, had these Gentlemen
   Hor. Well, sit we downe,
   Hor. What art thou that vsurp'st this time of night,
   Hor. What if it tempt you toward the Floud my Lord?
  Hor. What is it ye would see;
   Hor. What is't my Lord? we will
  Hor. What newes, my Lord?
   Hor. What's that my Lord?
  Hor. While one with moderate hast might tell a hundred
   Hor. Why, what a King is this?
   Hor. You will lose this wager, my Lord
  Hora. Heere sweet Lord, at your Seruice
  Hora. I did verie well note him.
   Hora. Most like: It harrowes me with fear & wonder
  Hora. Now cracke a Noble heart:
   Hora. O my deere Lord
  Hora. Verie well my Lord
   Hora. Well my Lord.
  Hora. What are they that would speake with me?
   Hora. You might haue Rim'd
   Horat. Is it a custome?
Horatio, When thou shalt haue ouerlook'd this, giue these
Horatio, or I do forget my selfe
Horatio tell me one thing
Houres
Houses that he makes, lasts till Doomesday: go, get thee
How are they escorted? Will they pursue the Quality no
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose:
How does your Honor for this many a day?
How ere my happes, my ioyes were ne're begun.
How in my words someuer she be shent,
How much I had to doe to calme his rage?
How now Ophelia, what's the matter?
How now? What Newes?
How now? What hath befalne?
How now my Lord,
How otherwise will you be rul'd by me?
How pregnant (sometimes) his Replies are?
How smart a lash that speech doth giue my Conscience?
How strange or odde so ere I beare my selfe;
How these things came about. So shall you heare
How to forget that learning: but Sir now,
How weary, stale, flat, and vnprofitable
Hunts not the traile of Policie, so sure
Hurts the King.
Hyperions curles, the front of Ioue himselfe,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
INDEMNITY
I alone became their Prisoner. They haue dealt with mee, like
I am affear'd you make a wanton of me
I am dead Horatio, wretched Queene adiew,
I am iustly kill'd with mine owne Treacherie
I am more an Antike Roman then a Dane:
I am poyson'd
I am sorrie that with better speed and iudgement
I bought an Vnction of a Mountebanke
I can no more, the King, the King's too blame
I cannot deeme of. I intreat you both,
I cannot liue to heare the Newes from England,
I cannot tell how: but my Lord, his Maiesty bad me signifie
I could a Tale vnfold, whose lightest word
I could not but by her. The other Motiue,
I dare Damnation: to this point I stand,
I did repell his Letters, and deny'de
I do beseech you giue him leaue to go
I doe not set my life at a pins fee;
I do not know from what part of the world
I do receiue your offer'd loue like loue,
I do repent: but heauen hath pleas'd it so,
I doubt some foule play: would the Night were come;
Ieering? Quite chopfalne? Now get you to my Ladies
If Circumstances leade me, I will finde
If Hamlet from himselfe be tane away:
If Hamlet giue the first, or second hit,
If I had playd the Deske or Table-booke,
If by direct or by Colaterall hand
If damned Custome haue not braz'd it so,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
If he steale ought the whil'st this Play is Playing,
If it be made of penetrable stuffe;
If it be so, as so tis put on me;
If once a Widdow, euer I be Wife
If one could match you Sir. This report of his
If ought of woe, or wonder, cease your search
If she vnmaske her beauty to the Moone:
If't be th' affliction of his loue, or no.
If that his Maiesty would ought with vs,
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
If this should blast in proofe: Soft, let me see
If thou art priuy to thy Countries Fate
If thou canst mutine in a Matrons bones,
If thou did'st euer hold me in thy heart,
If thou didst euer thy deare Father loue
If thou hast any sound, or vse of Voyce,
If thou hast nature in thee beare it not;
If with too credent eare you list his Songs;
If you desire to know the certaintie
If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
If you find any scanning errors, out and out typos, punctuation
If you haue hitherto conceald this sight;
I had my fathers Signet in my Purse,
I had not quoted him. I feare he did but trifle,
I ha't: when in your motion you are hot and dry,
I haue a daughter: haue, whil'st she is mine,
I haue a speech of fire, that faine would blaze,
I haue a voyce, and president of peace
I haue bad dreames
I haue beene in continuall practice; I shall winne at the
I haue heard, that guilty Creatures sitting at a Play,
I haue in quicke determination
I haue much to tell thee, Farewell.
I haue seene you both:
I haue some Rites of memory in this Kingdome,
I his foule Sonne, do this same Villaine send
I hold it fit that we shake hands, and part:
I hold my dutie, as I hold my Soule,
I hop'd thou should'st haue bin my Hamlets wife:
I know my course. The Spirit that I haue seene
I know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all custome of exercise;
I know the good King & Queene haue sent for you
Ile blessing begge of you. For this same Lord,
Ile boord him presently.
Ile call vpon you ere you go to bed,
Ile change that name with you:
Ile crosse it, though it blast me. Stay Illusion:
Ile doo't. Dost thou come heere to whine;
Ile lugge the Guts into the Neighbor roome,
Ile rant as well as thou
Ile rent him to the quicke: If he but blench
Ile speake to it, though Hell it selfe should gape
Ile visit you
Ile wipe away all triuiall fond Records,
I lou'd you euer; but it is no matter:
I lou'd your Father, and we loue our Selfe,
I made to her in Marriage; and to decline
Imperiall Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Importing Denmarks health, and Englands too,
Importing the surrender of those Lands
I must be cruell, onely to be kinde;
In Denmarkes Crowne haue worne.
In addition to the notes below, and so you will *NOT* think all
Indeed would make one thinke there would be thought,
Indentures? the very Conueyances of his Lands will
In dreadfull secrecie impart they did,
In eare and eare. O my deere Gertrude, this,
In equall Scale weighing Delight and Dole
Infects vnseene. Confesse your selfe to Heauen,
In filiall Obligation, for some terme
Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
In further euill
In generall Synod take away her power:
In going backe to Schoole in Wittenberg,
In his true Nature, and we our selues compell'd
In honourable fashion
In hugger mugger to interre him. Poore Ophelia
In ill breeding minds. Let her come in.
In mincing with his Sword her Husbands limbes,
In my hearts Core. I, in my Heart of heart,
In neither ought, or in extremity:
In noise so rude against me?
In obstinate Condolement, is a course
In scuffling they change Rapiers.
In second Husband, let me be accurst,
In the Lobby
In the corrupted currants of this world,
In the dead wast and middle of the night
In thee, there is not halfe an houre of life;
In the ranke sweat of an enseamed bed,
In thewes and Bulke: but as his Temple waxes,
In this distracted Globe: Remember thee?
Into a Towring passion
Into the Chappell. I pray you hast in this.
Into the Madnesse whereon now he raues,
Inuite me,
In which the Maiesty of buried Denmarke
In your Nature Hamlet,
In youth when I did loue, did loue,
I once did hold it as our Statists doe,
I pray you go with me.
I pray you now, receiue them
I pray you pardon me
I pray you passe with your best violence,
I prythee stay with vs, go not to Wittenberg
I prythee take thy fingers from my throat;
I prythee, when thou see'st that Acte a-foot,
I saw him enter such a house of saile;
I saw him yesterday, or tother day;
I saw you last, by the altitude of a Choppine. Pray God
I say away, goe on, Ile follow thee.
I say, we will haue no more Marriages. Those that are
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
Is by a forged processe of my death
Is death of Fathers, and who still hath cried,
I shall not look vpon his like againe
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
I should haue fatted all the Region Kites
I should impart a thing to you from his Maiesty
Is it not monstrous that this Player heere,
Is not more vgly to the thing that helpes it,
Is not this something more then Fantasie?
Is now most still, most secret, and most graue,
Is sicklied o're, with the pale cast of Thought,
Is strick'd in his Arrest) oh I could tell you.
I stand aloofe, and will no reconcilement,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
I stay too long; but here my Father comes:
Is the great loue the generall gender beare him,
Is the maine Motiue of our Preparations,
Is there not Raine enough in the sweet Heauens
Is this the fine of his Fines, and the recouery of his Recoueries,
Is thought-sicke at the act
I suffred much extreamity for loue: very neere this. Ile
Italian. You shall see anon how the Murtherer gets the
It did me Yeomans seriuce: wilt thou know
It fits your wisedome so farre to beleeue it;
It had bin so with vs had we beene there:
It hath the primall eldest curse vpon't,
I thinke it was to see my Mothers Wedding
I thought thy Bride-bed to haue deckt (sweet Maid)
I, thou poore Ghost, while memory holds a seate
It is; Adue, Adue, Remember me: I haue sworn't
It is a damned Ghost that we haue seene:
It is an honest Ghost, that let me tell you:
It is a poyson temp'red by himselfe:
It is most retrograde to our desire:
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
It is our tricke, Nature her custome holds,
It lifted vp it head, and did addresse
It may be death
I tooke thee for thy Betters, take thy Fortune,
It seemes it is as proper to our Age,
It selfe to motion, like as it would speake:
It sends some precious instance of it selfe
It's giuen out, that sleeping in mine Orchard,
It shall as leuell to your Iudgement pierce
It shewes a will most incorrect to Heauen,
It spill's it selfe, in fearing to be spilt.
It wafts you to a more remoued ground:
It warmes the very sicknesse in my heart,
It was against your Highnesse, whereat greeued,
It was the very day, that young Hamlet was borne, hee
It waues me forth againe; Ile follow it
It will be laide to vs, whose prouidence
It will but skin and filme the Vlcerous place,
I'ue seene my selfe, and seru'd against the French,
I was about say somthing: where did I leaue?
I will be breefe. Your Noble Sonne is mad:
I will bestow him, and will answer well
I will come by and by
I will leaue him,
I will requite your loues; so fare ye well:
I will speake Daggers to her, but vse none:
I would not, in plaine tearmes, from this time forth,
I would set downe, and insert in't? Could ye not?
I your Commission will forthwith dispatch,
July, 2000  [Etext #2265]
   K. Hamlet, this deed of thine, for thine especial safety
Keepes on his wonder, keepes himselfe in clouds,
Keepes wassels and the swaggering vpspring reeles,
Kibe. How long hast thou been a Graue-maker?
Killes Polonius
  Kin. A Norman
  Kin. Come Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me
   Kin. Hee mad confession of you,
   Kin. If it be so Laertes, as how should it be so:
  Kin. I pray you good Horatio wait vpon him,
  Kin. Laertes was your Father deare to you?
  Kin. Let's follow, Gertrude:
   Kin. Let's further thinke of this,
   Kin. No place indeed should murder Sancturize;
  Kin. Not that I thinke you did not loue your Father,
   Kin. The very same
   Kin. This is meere Madnesse:
  Kin. 'Tis Hamlets Character, naked and in a Postscript
   Kin. To thine owne peace: if he be now return'd,
  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
   King. Arme you, I pray you to this speedie Voyage;
  King. As of a man, faithfull and Honourable
   King. At Supper? Where?
   King. Breake not your sleepes for that,
   King. Bring him before vs
   King. But how hath she receiu'd his Loue?
   King. But where is he?
   King. Conceit vpon her Father
  King. Dead
   King. Do you thinke 'tis this?
King Dyes.
   King. Faith I must leaue thee Loue, and shortly too:
King, Father, Royall Dane: Oh, oh, answer me,
  King. Follow her close,
  King. Follow him at foote,
   King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
  King. Full thirtie times hath Phoebus Cart gon round,
   King. Gertrude, do not drinke
   King. Giue me some Light. Away
   King. Giue them the Foyles yong Osricke,
   King. Good Laertes:
   King. Go seeke him there
   King. Haue you heard the Argument, is there no Offence
   King. Haue you your Fathers leaue?
   King. How do ye, pretty Lady?
   King. How fares our Cosin Hamlet?
   King. How is it that the Clouds still hang on you?
   King. How long hath she bin thus?
   King. How may we try it further?
  King. I Hamlet
   King. I do beleeue you. Think what now you speak:
   King. I do not feare it,
   King. I do not thinke't
   King. I haue nothing with this answer Hamlet, these
  King. I haue sent to seeke him, and to find the bodie:
  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with vs,
   King. It is the poyson'd Cup, it is too late
   King. It likes vs well:
   King. It shall be so:
  King. Laertes, I must common with your greefe,
   King. Laertes you shall heare them:
   King. Let him demand his fill
  King. Loue? His affections do not that way tend,
  King. My words flye vp, my thoughts remain below,
  King. Not that I know
  King. Now Hamlet, where's Polonius?
  King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
  King. O for two speciall Reasons,
   King. Oh Gertrude, come away:
   King. Oh heauy deed:
  King. Oh he is mad Laertes,
   King. Oh speake of that, that I do long to heare
   King. Oh 'tis true:
   King. Our Sonne shall win
   King. O yet defend me Friends, I am but hurt
  King. Part them, they are incens'd
   King. Pluck them asunder
   King. Pretty Ophelia
   King. Set me the Stopes of wine vpon that Table:
  King. She sounds to see them bleede
   King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes
   King. So you shall:
   King. Stay, giue me drinke.
  King. Sweet Gertrude leaue vs too,
   King. Take thy faire houre Laertes, time be thine,
   King. Thankes Rosincrance, and gentle Guildensterne
   King. Thankes deere my Lord.
  King. The doores are broke
  King. There's matters in these sighes.
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our deere Brothers death
   King. Thou still hast bin the father of good Newes
   King. Thy louing Father Hamlet
   King. Thy selfe do grace to them, and bring them in.
   King. 'Tis deepely sworne:
   King. 'Tis sweet and commendable
   King. We doubt it nothing, heartily farewell.
  King. Welcome deere Rosincrance and Guildensterne.
  King. Well, we shall sift him. Welcome good Frends:
   King. We will try it.
  King. What Gertrude? How do's Hamlet?
   King. What dost thou meane by this?
   King. What do you call the Play?
   King. What is the cause Laertes,
  King. Where are my Switzers?
   King. Where is Polonius
   King. Who shall stay you?
   King. Why now you speake
   King. Why 'tis a louing, and a faire Reply,
   King. Will you know them then
   King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
Kingdome. To morrow shall I begge leaue to see your Kingly
King hold his purpose; I will win for him if I can: if
Knight shal vse his Foyle and Target: the Louer shall
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
   La. To his good Friends, thus wide Ile ope my Armes:
   Laer. A Norman was't?
   Laer. A document in madnesse, thoughts & remembrance
   Laer. Alas then, is she drown'd?
   Laer. And so haue I a Noble Father lost,
   Laer. And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience
  Laer. A touch, a touch, I do confesse
   Laer. Come one for me
   Laer. Come on sir.
  Laer. Do you see this, you Gods?
  Laer. Dread my Lord,
   Laer. Drown'd! O where?
   Laer. Farewell.
   Laer. Farewell Ophelia, and remember well
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his fauours,
   Laer. Had'st thou thy wits, and did'st perswade Reuenge,
   Laer. Haue at you now.
  Laer. He is iustly seru'd.
   Laer. How came he dead? Ile not be Iuggel'd with.
  Laer. How now? what noise is that?
   Laer. I am satisfied in Nature,
  Laer. If so you'l not o'rerule me to a peace
   Laer. I know him well, he is the Brooch indeed,
  Laer. I'm lost in it my Lord; but let him come,
   Laer. I pray you giue me leaue
   Laer. I thanke you: Keepe the doore.
   Laer. It is heere Hamlet.
   Laer. It well appeares. But tell me,
   Laer. I will doo't.
  Laer. Know you the hand?
   Laer. Lay her i'th' earth,
   Laer. Let this be so:
   Laer. Most humbly doe I take my leaue, my Lord
   Laer. Must there no more be done ?
   Laer. My Lord, Ile hit him now
  Laer. My Will, not all the world,
  Laer. My necessaries are imbark't; Farewell:
   Laer. No
   Laer. None but his Enemies
   Laer. Oh, feare me not.
   Laer. Oh terrible woer,
   Laer. Say you so? Come on.
   Laer. That drop of blood, that calmes
   Laer. The deuill take thy soule
   Laer. Thinke it no more:
   Laer. This is too heauy,
   Laer. This nothings more then matter
   Laer. Thought, and Affliction, Passion, Hell it selfe:
  Laer. To cut his throat i'th' Church
   Laer. Too much of water hast thou poore Ophelia,
   Laer. Vpon my life Lamound
   Laer. Well: againe
   Laer. What Cerimony else?
   Laer. What Cerimony else?
   Laer. Where is the King, sirs? Stand you all without
   Laer. Where's my Father?
  Laer. Why as a Woodcocke
  Laer. Why aske you this?
   Laer. Why out of this, my Lord?
   Laer. You mocke me Sir
Laertes, and his Sister Ophelia, Lords Attendant.
Laertes shall be King, Laertes King
Laertes, you but dally,
Larded with many seuerall sorts of reason;
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Lay not a flattering Vnction to your soule,
Leaps in the graue.
Least with this pitteous action you conuert
Leaue vs.
Leaue wringing of your hands, peace, sit you downe,
Lest more mischance
Let Hercules himselfe doe what he may,
Let all the Battlements their Ordinance fire,
Let come what comes: onely Ile be reueng'd
Let go, by Heauen Ile haue't.
Let him go Gertrude: Do not feare our person:
Let his Queene Mother all alone intreat him
Let in the Maid, that out a Maid, neuer departed more
Let it bee treble in your silence still:
Let me be cruell, not vnnaturall,
Let me be no Assistant for a State,
Let me not burst in Ignorance; but tell
Let me not thinke on't: Frailty, thy name is woman.
Let me see another
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd euill,
Let not the Royall Bed of Denmarke be
Let shame say what it will; when these are gone
Let the Birds flye, and like the famous Ape
Let the blunt King tempt you againe to bed,
Let them guard the doore. What is the matter?
Let vs impart what we haue seene to night
Like Iohn a-dreames, vnpregnant of my cause,
Like Niobe, all teares. Why she, euen she.
Like Quilles vpon the fretfull Porpentine:
Like a good Childe, and a true Gentleman.
Like sweet Bels iangled out of tune, and harsh,
Like to a murdering Peece in many places,
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Liues almost by his lookes: and for my selfe,
Lome, and why of that Lome (whereto he was conuerted)
Looke too't, I charge you; come your wayes
Looke where he goes euen now out at the Portall.
Looke where it comes againe
Looke you, Ile goe pray
Looke you lay home to him,
Looke you, these are the stoppes
Lord Hamlet is a Prince out of thy Starre,
Lord Hamlet with his doublet all vnbrac'd,
Lord Horatio, these three yeares I haue taken note of it,
Lords.
Lost by his Father: with all Bonds of Law
   Lucian. Thoughts blacke, hands apt,
Machine is to him, Hamlet.
Mac users, do NOT point and click, typing works better.
Mad call I it; for to define true Madnesse,
Mad let vs grant him then: and now remaines
Madnesse in great Ones, must not vnwatch'd go.
Maiesty shall haue Tribute of mee: the aduenturous
Maiesty: this to the Queene
Make Ossa like a wart. Nay, and thou'lt mouth,
Make choice of whom your wisest Friends you will,
Make mad the guilty, and apale the free,
Makes Vow before his Vnkle, neuer more
Make thy two eyes like Starres, start from their Spheres,
Make vp my summe. What wilt thou do for her?
Make vs againe count o're, ere loue be done.
Make you to rauell all this matter out,
Making Night hidious? And we fooles of Nature,
Manet Hamlet.
Manet Hamlet.
Manet Hamlet & Horatio.
   Mar. And Leige-men to the Dane
   Mar. Good now sit downe, & tell me he that knowes
  Mar. Holla Barnardo
   Mar. Horatio saies, 'tis but our Fantasie,
   Mar. How ist my Noble Lord?
   Mar. Is it not like the King?
   Mar. It faded on the crowing of the Cocke.
   Mar. It is offended
  Mar. Let do't I pray, and I this morning know
   Mar. Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him
   Mar. Looke with what courteous action
  Mar. Lord Hamlet
  Mar. My Lord vpon the platforme where we watcht
   Mar. My good Lord
   Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
   Mar. No, it is strooke
   Mar. Nor I, my Lord
   Mar. Nor I my Lord: in faith
   Mar. O farwel honest Soldier, who hath relieu'd you?
   Mar. Peace, breake thee of:
   Mar. Question it Horatio
   Mar. Shall I strike at it with my Partizan?
   Mar. So be it
  Mar. Something is rotten in the State of Denmarke
   Mar. Thou art a Scholler; speake to it Horatio
   Mar. Thus twice before, and iust at this dead houre,
   Mar. 'Tis gone.
  Mar. 'Tis gone, and will not answer
   Mar. What, ha's this thing appear'd againe to night
   Mar. You shall not goe my Lord
   Marcell. We haue sworne my Lord already
Marcellus
(Marcellus and Barnardo) on their Watch
Marcellus, the Riuals of my Watch, bid them make hast.
March. Sound
March afarre off, and shout within.
Marke the encounter: If he loue her not,
Marke you your party in conuerse; him you would sound,
Mason, the Shipwright, or the Carpenter?
May Violets spring. I tell thee (churlish Priest)
May be the Diuell, and the Diuel hath power
May doe t' expresse his loue and friending to you,
May fit vs to our shape, if this should faile;
May giue his saying deed: which is no further,
May one be pardon'd, and retaine th' offence?
May sweepe to my Reuenge
Meane time we thanke you, for your well-tooke Labour.
Meet what I would haue well, and it destroy:
Mellon University).
  Mes. Letters my Lord from Hamlet, This to your
  Mes. Saue your selfe, my Lord.
  Mes. Saylors my Lord they say, I saw them not:
Messe; 'tis a Chowgh; but as I saw spacious in the possession
Michael S. Hart
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
Might by the Soueraigne power you haue of vs,
Might stop a hole to keepe the winde away.
Millions of Akers on vs; till our ground
Mine and my Fathers death come not vpon thee,
Mischeefe
More Relatiue then this: The Play's the thing,
More greefe to hide, then hate to vtter loue.
More honour'd in the breach, then the obseruance.
Moreouer, that we much did long to see you,
More then his Fathers death, that thus hath put him
More then in words?
Most Lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
Most free in his reply
Most generous, and free from all contriuing,
Most holie and Religious feare it is
Most necessary 'tis, that we forget
Most throughly for my Father
Most welcome home.
Mother. But is there no sequell at the heeles of this Mothers
Mother goodnight. Indeede this Counsellor
Much heate, and him. Ile silence me e'ene heere:
Must I remember: why she would hang on him,
Must giue vs pawse. There's the respect
Must (like a Whore) vnpacke my heart with words,
Must render vp my selfe
My Crowne, mine owne Ambition, and my Queene:
My Father in his habite, as he liued,
My Fathers Brother: but no more like my Father,
My Fathers Spirit in Armes? All is not well:
My Honourable Lord, I will most humbly
My Liege, and Madam, to expostulate
My Lord, with all the vowes of Heauen
My Newes shall be the Newes to that great Feast
My Pulse as yours doth temperately keepe time,
My Tables, my Tables; meet it is I set it downe,
My Tongue and Soule in this be Hypocrites.
My Vertue or my Plague, be it either which,
My custome alwayes in the afternoone;
My father, me thinkes I see my father
My fault is past. But oh, what forme of Prayer
(My feares forgetting manners) to vnseale
My head should be struck off
My operant Powers my Functions leaue to do:
My sea-gowne scarft about me in the darke,
My soule is full of discord and dismay.
My spirits grow dull, and faine I would beguile
My sterne effects: then what I haue to do,
My stronger guilt, defeats my strong intent,
My thoughts and wishes bend againe towards France,
My too much changed Sonne.
Nature is fine in Loue, and where 'tis fine,
Nay, come let's goe together.
Neither a borrower, nor a lender be;
Neptunes salt Wash, and Tellus Orbed ground:
Neuer to rise againe: Thy Mothers poyson'd:
Neuer to speake of this that you haue heard:
New lighted on a heauen-kissing hill:
Next your Sonne gone, and he most violent Author
No Faiery talkes, nor Witch hath power to Charme:
No Medicine in the world can do thee good.
No Noble rite, nor formall ostentation,
No Traueller returnes, Puzels the will,
No Trophee, Sword, nor Hatchment o're his bones,
No hat vpon his head, his stockings foul'd,
No in despight of Sense and Secrecie,
No iocond health that Denmarke drinkes to day,
Noise within. Enter Laertes.
No, let the Candied tongue, like absurd pompe,
No more; and by a sleepe, to say we end
No more sweet Hamlet
No more to vndertake it; I will worke him
None wed the second, but who kill'd the first
No, no, he is dead, go to thy Death-bed,
No, nor the fruitfull Riuer in the Eye,
No not to stay the grinding of the Axe,
Nor Customary suites of solemne Blacke,
Nor any vnproportion'd thoughts his Act:
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Nor shall you doe mine eare that violence,
Nor the deiected hauiour of the Visage,
Northerly
Nor thine on me.
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd Forme a little,
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
Note, to the top of my Compasse: and there is much Musicke,
Not of the eye, which their Inuestments show:
Not shriuing time allowed
Now falles on Priam.
Now feare I this will giue it start againe;
Now followes, that you know young Fortinbras,
Now for our selfe, and for this time of meeting
Now is he to take Geulles, horridly Trick'd
Now out of this
Now pile your dust, vpon the quicke, and dead,
Now see that Noble, and most Soueraigne Reason,
Now the King drinkes to Hamlet. Come, begin,
Now weares his Crowne
Now what my loue is, proofe hath made you know,
          OR
(O Heauen! A beast that wants discourse of Reason
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
O Shame! where is thy Blush? Rebellious Hell,
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
Obey you Madam
Obserue mine Vnkle: If his occulted guilt,
Occasion smiles vpon a second leaue
O deere Ophelia, I am ill at these Numbers: I haue not Art to
Of Bell and Buriall
Of Crow-flowers, Nettles, Daysies, and long Purples,
Of Hamlets transformation: so I call it,
Of Hamlets wildenesse: so shall I hope your Vertues
Of Life, of Crowne, and Queene at once dispatcht;
Of Reuerend Priam, seem'd i'th' Ayre to sticke:
Of accidentall iudgements, casuall slaughters
Of all their Conference. If she finde him not,
Of blew Olympus
Of carnall, bloudie, and vnnaturall acts,
Of death's put on by cunning, and forc'd cause,
Of each vnhatch't, vnfledg'd Comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrell: but being in
Offences gilded hand may shoue by Iustice,
Of his affection to me
Of his behauiour
Of his owne iust remoue: the people muddied,
Of his true state
Of impious stubbornnesse. 'Tis vnmanly greefe,
Of man and Country
Of mighty opposites
Of mine owne eyes
Of my true Mother
Of these dilated Articles allow:
Of this his Nephewes purpose, to suppresse
Of this post-hast, and Romage in the Land.
Of those effects for which I did the Murther.
Of violent Birth, but poore validitie:
Of vnimproued Mettle, hot and full,
Of your deere Fathers death, if writ in your reuenge,
Of your precedent Lord. A vice of Kings,
Oh Hamlet, what a falling off was there,
Oh Heart, loose not thy Nature; let not euer
Oh Heauens, is't possible, a yong Maids wits,
Oh Vengeance!
Oh Villaine, Villaine, smiling damned Villaine!
Oh giue me leaue. How does my good Lord Hamlet?
Oh good Horatio, what a wounded name,
Oh heate drie vp my Braines, teares seuen times salt,
Oh heauie burthen!
Oh heere they come.
Oh horrible Oh horrible, most horrible:
Oh limed soule, that strugling to be free,
Oh most pernicious woman!
Oh my deere Hamlet, the drinke, the drinke,
Oh my offence is ranke, it smels to heauen,
Oh royall knauery: An exact command,
Oh, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
Oh this is Counter you false Danish Dogges.
Oh this is the poyson of deepe greefe, it springs
Oh thou vilde King, giue me my Father
Oh what a Rogue and Pesant slaue am I?
Oh wicked Wit, and Gifts, that haue the power
Oh wretched state! Oh bosome, blacke as death!
Olde Grandsire Priam seekes
O me thought there was nothing meete
On Fortinbras, he ha's my dying voyce,
On Fortinbras, which he (in breefe) obeyes,
On Mars his Armours, forg'd for proofe Eterne,
One Scoene of it comes neere the Circumstance
[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
On plots, and errors happen
On such regards of safety and allowance,
On wholsome life, vsurpe immediately.
  Ophe. Alas my Lord, I haue beene so affrighted
   Ophe. And hath giuen countenance to his speech,
   Ophe. And will he not come againe,
  Ophe. At home, my Lord
   Ophe. Belike this shew imports the Argument of the
   Ophe. Could Beautie my Lord, haue better Comerce
   Ophe. Good my Lord,
  Ophe. He hath my Lord of late, made many tenders
  Ophe. He tooke me by the wrist, and held me hard;
  Ophe. How should I your true loue know from another one?
  Ophe. I do not know, my Lord, what I should thinke
  Ophe. I hope all will be well. We must bee patient,
  Ophe. I my Lord
  Ophe. I my Lord
   Ophe. Indeed la? without an oath Ile make an end ont.
   Ophe. Indeed my Lord, you made me beleeue so
   Ophe. I shall obey my Lord.
   Ophe. I shall th' effect of this good Lesson keepe,
  Ophe. I thinke nothing, my Lord
   Ophe. I was the more deceiued
   Ophe. Larded with sweet Flowers:
   Ophe. Madam, I wish it may
  Ophe. My Lord
  Ophe. My Lord, I doe not know: but truly I do feare it
   Ophe. My Lord, I haue Remembrances of yours,
  Ophe. My Lord, as I was sowing in my Chamber,
   Ophe. My Lord, he hath importun'd me with loue,
   Ophe. My honor'd Lord, I know right well you did,
   Ophe. Nay, 'tis twice two moneths, my Lord
  Ophe. No my Lord
  Ophe. No my good Lord: but as you did command,
   Ophe. O heauenly Powers, restore him
   Ophe. O helpe him, you sweet Heauens
  Ophe. O what a Noble minde is heere o're-throwne?
   Ophe. Pray you let's haue no words of this: but when
   Ophe. Pray you marke.
  Ophe. Say you? Nay pray you marke.
  Ophe. So please you, somthing touching the L[ord]. Hamlet
   Ophe. Still better and worse
   Ophe. The King rises
   Ophe. There's Fennell for you, and Columbines: ther's
   Ophe. There's Rosemary, that's for Remembraunce.
   Ophe. They bore him bare fac'd on the Beer,
  Ophe. 'Tis briefe my Lord
   Ophe. Tis in my memory lockt,
  Ophe. Well, God dil'd you. They say the Owle was
  Ophe. What is my Lord?
  Ophe. What meanes this, my Lord?
  Ophe. What meanes your Lordship?
  Ophe. Where is the beauteous Maiesty of Denmark
   Ophe. Will they tell vs what this shew meant?
   Ophe. You are a good Chorus, my Lord
   Ophe. You are keene my Lord, you are keene
   Ophe. You are merrie, my Lord?
   Ophe. You are naught, you are naught, Ile marke the
   Ophe. You must sing downe a-downe, and you call
   Ophel. Doe you doubt that?
   Ophel. No more but so
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtfull Phrase;
Ore-beares your Officers, the rabble call him Lord,
O'remaster't as you may. And now good friends,
O're which his Melancholly sits on brood,
O're whom his very madnesse like some Oare
Or giuen my heart a winking, mute and dumbe,
Or, if thou hast vp-hoorded in thy life
Or if we list to speake; or there be and if there might,
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed,
Or is it some abuse? Or no such thing?
Or like a creature Natiue, and indued
Or look'd vpon this Loue, with idle sight,
Or lose your Heart; or your chast Treasure open
Or my deere Maiestie your Queene heere, think,
Or not at all.
Or not to crack the winde of the poore Phrase,
Or padling in your necke with his damn'd Fingers,
Or pardon'd being downe? Then Ile looke vp,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect;
Or such ambiguous giuing out to note,
Or that the Euerlasting had not fixt
Or then or then, with such and such; and as you say,
Or thinking by our late deere Brothers death,
Or to take Armes against a Sea of troubles,
Or to the dreadfull Sonnet of the Cliffe,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
Or you deny me right: go but apart,
   Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit
   Osr. Exceedingly, my Lord, it is very soultry, as 'twere
  Osr. How is't Laertes?
   Osr. I commend my duty to your Lordship
  Osr. I meane my Lord, the opposition of your person
   Osr. I thanke your Lordship, 'tis very hot
   Osr. It is indifferent cold my Lord indeed
   Osr. Looke to the Queene there hoa
   Osr. Nay, in good faith, for mine ease in good faith:
  Osr. Nothing neither way
  Osr. Rapier and dagger
   Osr. Shall I redeliuer you ee'n so?
   Osr. Sweet Lord, if your friendship were at leysure,
  Osr. The Carriages Sir, are the hangers
  Osr. The King Sir, hath laid that in a dozen passes betweene
   Osr. The sir King ha's wag'd with him six Barbary horses,
  Osr. Yong Fortinbras, with conquest come fro[m] Poland
  Osr. Your Lordship is right welcome back to Denmarke
  Osricke. I my good Lord
O step betweene her, and her fighting Soule,
O the Recorder. Let me see, to withdraw with you, why
   Other. But is this law?
  Other. Go too
  Other. I tell thee she is, and therefore make her Graue
   Other. Marry, now I can tell
   Other. Masse, I cannot tell.
   Other. Nay but heare you Goodman Deluer
  Other. The Gallowes maker; for that Frame outliues a
   Other. Was he a Gentleman?
   Other. Who builds stronger then a Mason, a Shipwright,
   Other. Why he had none
  Other. Why 'tis found so
   Other. Will you ha the truth on't: if this had not
Ouer his Kingdome. You know the Rendeuous:
Ouer the nasty Stye
Our Crowne, our Life, and all that we call Ours
Our Soueraigne Processe, which imports at full
Our State to be disioynt, and out of Frame,
Our Willes and Fates do so contrary run,
Our cheefest Courtier Cosin, and our Sonne
Our hastie sending. Something haue you heard
Our indiscretion sometimes serues vs well,
Our purpose may hold there; how sweet Queene.
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our owne.
Out of his Lunacies
Out of his subiect: and we heere dispatch
Out of my Weaknesse, and my Melancholly,
Out of the ayre my Lord?
Out of the shot and danger of Desire.
Out, out, thou Strumpet-Fortune, all you Gods,
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
P. O. Box  2782
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
Passing through Nature, to Eternity
Passion, you must acquire and beget a Temperance that
Pastoricall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
Payes homage to vs; thou maist not coldly set
Phrase: but you shall heare these in her excellent white
Pinch Wanton on your cheeke, call you his Mouse,
Play.
Play?
Play.
   1.Play. But who, O who, had seen the inobled Queen
   Play. I hope we haue reform'd that indifferently with
  Play. I my Lord
  Play. I my Lord
   1.Play. Run bare-foot vp and downe,
   1.Play. What speech, my Lord?
   1.Player. Anon he findes him,
   Player. I warrant your Honor
Players. Mark it, you say right Sir: for a Monday morning
Play something like the murder of my Father,
Pleasant and helpfull to him.
Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
Please take a look at the important information in this header.
Pluckes off my Beard, and blowes it in my face?
  Pol. And the Queene too, and that presently
   Pol. At such a time Ile loose my Daughter to him,
   Pol. Away I do beseech you, both away,
   Pol. Come sirs.
   Pol. Do you know me, my Lord?
   Pol. Fore God, my Lord, well spoken, with good accent,
   Pol. Giue first admittance to th' Ambassadors,
  Pol. Giue o're the Play
   Pol. Good Madam stay awhile, I will be faithfull.
   Pol. Hath there bene such a time, I'de fain know that,
   Pol. Haue I, my Lord? Assure you, my good Liege,
  Pol. He hath my Lord:
  Pol. He will come straight:
   Pol. Honest, my Lord?
   Pol. How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter:
  Pol. I did enact Iulius Caesar, I was kill'd i'th' Capitol:
  Pol. I haue my Lord
  Pol. I heare him comming, let's withdraw my Lord.
  Pol. I meane the matter you meane, my Lord
  Pol. Indeed that is out o'th' Ayre:
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I beleeue
   Pol. I wold faine proue so. But what might you think?
   Pol. Looke where he ha's not turn'd his colour, and
   Pol. Madam, I sweare I vse no Art at all:
   Pol. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you
   Pol. My Lord, I will vse them according to their desart
  Pol. My Lord, he's going to his Mothers Closset:
   Pol. Not I my Lord
   Pol. Oh I am slaine.
   Pol. Oh ho, do you marke that?
   Pol. Ophelia, walke you heere. Gracious so please ye
   Pol. Still on my Daughter
   Pol. Take this from this; if this be otherwise,
  Pol. Th' Ambassadors from Norwey, my good Lord,
   Pol. That hath made him mad.
  Pol. That's good: Inobled Queene is good
   Pol. That's very true, my Lord
  Pol. The Actors are come hither my Lord
  Pol. This businesse is very well ended.
   Pol. This is too long
   Pol. Though this be madnesse,
   Pol. 'Tis most true:
   Pol. Vpon mine Honor
  Pol. Well be with you Gentlemen
  Pol. What a Treasure had he, my Lord?
  Pol. What do you thinke of me?
   Pol. What hoa, helpe, helpe, helpe
   Pol. What is the matter, my Lord?
  Pol. You know sometimes
   Polon. Affection, puh. You speake like a greene Girle,
   Polon. And in part him, but you may say not well;
   Polon. And let him plye his Musicke
   Polon. And then Sir does he this?
   Polon. At closes in the consequence, I marry,
   Polon. By'th' Masse, and it's like a Camell indeed
   Polon. Faith no, as you may season it in the charge;
  Polon. Farewell:
   Polon. Fare you well my Lord
  Polon. Giue him his money, and these notes Reynoldo
   Polon. God buy you; fare you well
   Polon. Goe with me, I will goe seeke the King,
   Polon. I, Springes to catch Woodcocks. I doe know
   Polon. I, fashion you may call it, go too, go too
  Polon. If you call me Iephta my Lord, I haue a daughter
   Polon. I, or drinking, fencing, swearing,
   Polon. It is back'd like a Weazell
   Polon. I will say so.
   Polon. Mad for thy Loue?
   Polon. Marry Ile teach you; thinke your selfe a Baby,
   Polon. Marry Sir, heere's my drift,
   Polon. Marry, well bethought:
   Polon. Marry, well said;
  Polon. My Lord; the Queene would speak with you,
   Polon. Obserue his inclination in your selfe
  Polon. That I did my Lord, and was accounted a good
  Polon. The best Actors in the world, either for Tragedie,
   Polon. The time inuites you, goe, your seruants tend
  Polon. Verie like a Whale
   Polon. What followes then, my Lord?
  Polon. What ist Ophelia he hath said to you?
   Polon. What said he?
   Polon. Wherefore should you doe this?
   Polon. With what, in the name of Heauen?
   Polon. Yet heere Laertes? Aboord, aboord for shame,
   Polon. You goe to seeke my Lord Hamlet; there
   Polon. You shall doe maruels wisely: good Reynoldo,
Polonius,
Pons Chanson will shew you more. For looke where my
Popt in betweene th' election and my hopes,
Possesse it meerely. That it should come to this:
Powres the poyson in his eares.
Poysoner, with some two or three Mutes comes in againe, seeming
Pray loue remember: and there is Paconcies, that's for
Pray you be round with him
Prepare to play.
  Priest. Her Obsequies haue bin as farre inlarg'd.
  Priest. No more be done:
Proclaimes me Bastard:
Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,
Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie of Hamlet
Promontory; this most excellent Canopy the Ayre,
Prompted to my Reuenge by Heauen, and Hell,
Prouidence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not
Pul'd the poore wretch from her melodious buy,
Purpose is but the slaue to Memorie,
Pursued my life
Put your dread pleasures, more into Command
Pyrrhus at Priam driues, in Rage strikes wide:
  Qu. Ah my good Lord, what haue I seene to night?
  Qu. Alacke I had forgot: 'Tis so concluded on
  Qu. Alacke, what noyse is this?
  Qu. Alas he's mad
  Qu. Alas, how is't with you?
   Qu. Alas, looke heere my Lord
   Qu. Alas sweet Lady: what imports this Song?
   Qu. As kill a King?
   Qu. Aye me; what act, that roares so lowd, & thunders
   Qu. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
  Qu. But looke where sadly the poore wretch
   Qu. But not by him
   Qu. Calmely good Laertes
   Qu. Came this from Hamlet to her
   Qu. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue
   Qu. Come hither my good Hamlet, sit by me
   Qu. Come, let me wipe thy face
   Qu. Did he receiue you well?
   Qu. Did you assay him to any pastime?
  Qu. For loue of God forbeare him
   Qu. Good Gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
   Qu. Hamlet, Hamlet
  Qu. Hamlet, thou hast thy Father much offended
  Qu. Haue you forgot me?
   Qu. He's fat, and scant of breath.
   Qu. How cheerefully on the false Traile they cry,
   Qu. How fares my Lord?
   Qu. How now Ophelia?
   Qu. I doubt it is no other, but the maine,
   Qu. Ile warrant you, feare me not.
   Qu. I shall obey you,
  Qu. It may be very likely
   Qu. I will my Lord;
  Qu. I will not speake with her
   Qu. Let not thy Mother lose her Prayers Hamlet:
  Qu. Mad as the Seas, and winde, when both contend
   Qu. More matter, with lesse Art
  Qu. Nay but Ophelia
   Qu. Nay, then Ile set those to you that can speake
   Qu. No more.
   Qu. No, no, the drinke, the drinke.
  Qu. No, nothing but our selues
  Qu. Nothing at all, yet all that is I see
   Qu. O Hamlet, speake no more.
   Qu. Oh Hamlet,
   Qu. Oh me, what hast thou done?
   Qu. Oh my Sonne, what Theame?
   Qu. Oh speake to me, no more,
  Qu. Oh what a rash, and bloody deed is this?
   Qu. Sleepe rocke thy Braine,
   Qu. So he ha's indeed
   Qu. Thankes Guildensterne and gentle Rosincrance.
  Qu. The Lady protests to much me thinkes
  Qu. This is the very coynage of your Braine,
  Qu. To draw apart the body he hath kild,
   Qu. To who do you speake this?
   Qu. 'Twere good she were spoken with,
   Qu. What haue I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tong,
   Qu. What shall I do?
  Qu. What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murther me?
   Qu. What would she haue?
   Qu. Why how now Hamlet?
Quarelling, drabbing. You may goe so farre
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd
   Queen. Good Hamlet cast thy nightly colour off,
   Queen. If it be;
  Queen. One woe doth tread vpon anothers heele,
  Queen. There is a Willow growes aslant a Brooke,
  Queene. Amen.
  Queene. Sweets, to the sweet farewell.
Queene: moult no feather, I haue of late, but wherefore
Queene returnes, findes the King dead, and makes passionate
Queene with
Quillets? his Cases? his Tenures, and his Tricks? why
Quoth she before you tumbled me,
Rankly abus'd: But know thou Noble youth,
Rapiers and Poniards, with their assignes, as Girdle,
Reads the Letter.
Reason? how infinite in faculty? in forme and mouing
Rebellious to his Arme, lyes where it falles
Receiues rebuke from Norwey: and in fine,
Remorselesse, Treacherous, Letcherous, kindles villaine!
Repast them with my blood
Repent what's past, auoyd what is to come,
Repugnant to command: vnequall match,
Requit him for your Father
Resembles that it was. What it should bee
Respeaking earthly Thunder. Come away.
Reuenge should haue no bounds: but good Laertes
Reuisits thus the glimpses of the Moone,
Rewards, his Authorities (but such Officers do the King
Rew for you, and heere's some for me. Wee may call it
   Reynol. As gaming my Lord
  Reynol. At closes in the consequence:
   Reynol. But my good Lord
   Reynol. Good my Lord
  Reynol. I my Lord, I would know that
   Reynol. I shall my Lord
  Reynol. I, very well my Lord
   Reynol. I will my Lord
   Reynol. My Lord, I did intend it
  Reynol. My Lord I haue
   Reynol. My Lord that would dishonour him
   Reynol. Very good my Lord
   Reynol. Well, my Lord.
Richer then that, which foure successiue Kings
Rich gifts wax poore, when giuers proue vnkinde.
  Ro. What haue you done my Lord with the dead body?
Roaming it thus, you'l tender me a foole
Roses on my rac'd Shooes, get me a Fellowship in a crie
  Rosin. As the indifferent Children of the earth
   Rosin. Beleeue what?
   Rosin. Both your Maiesties
  Rosin. Euen those you were wont to take delight in
   Rosin. Faith there ha's bene much to do on both sides:
  Rosin. God saue you Sir
  Rosin. Good my Lord.
   Rosin. Good my Lord, what is your cause of distemper?
   Rosin. Happily he's the second time come to them: for
   Rosin. He does confesse he feeles himselfe distracted,
   Rosin. Hoa, Guildensterne? Bring in my Lord.
   Rosin. How can that be, when you haue the voyce of
  Rosin. I my Lord, they stay vpon your patience
  Rosin. I that they do my Lord. Hercules & his load too
   Rosin. I thinke their Inhibition comes by the meanes
   Rosin. I vnderstand you not my Lord
  Rosin. Madam, it so fell out, that certaine Players
  Rosin. Most like a Gentleman
   Rosin. My Lord, there was no such stuffe in my
   Rosin. My Lord, you must tell vs where the body is,
  Rosin. My Lord, you once did loue me
  Rosin. My most deare Lord?
  Rosin. Nay, their indeauour keepes in the wonted
  Rosin. Neither my Lord
   Rosin. Niggard of question, but of our demands
  Rosin. No indeed, they are not
  Rosin. None my Lord; but that the World's growne
  Rosin. She desires to speake with you in her Closset,
   Rosin. Take you me for a Spundge, my Lord?
   Rosin. Tell vs where 'tis, that we may take it thence,
   Rosin. Then is the World one
   Rosin. Then thus she sayes: your behauior hath stroke
   Rosin. The single
  Rosin. To thinke, my Lord, if you delight not in Man,
  Rosin. To visit you my Lord, no other occasion
   Rosin. To what end my Lord?
   Rosin. Truely, and I hold Ambition of so ayry and
   Rosin. We shall my Lord.
   Rosin. We thinke not so my Lord
   Rosin. What say you?
  Rosin. Where the dead body is bestow'd my Lord,
   Rosin. Why then your Ambition makes it one: 'tis
  Rosin. Without my Lord, guarded to know your
Rough-hew them how we will
Roughly awake, I heere proclaime was madnesse:
***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Saue me; and houer o're me with your wings
  Say. God blesse you Sir
   Say. Hee shall Sir, and't please him. There's a Letter
Say Voltumand, what from our Brother Norwey?
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we doe?
Scanner's Notes: What this is and isn't.  This was taken from
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
Scena Tertia
Scene indiuidible: or Poem
Scull of a Lawyer? where be his Quiddits now? his
Seeke for thy Noble Father in the dust;
Seemes to me all the vses of this world?
Seeming to feele his blow, with flaming top
See thou Character. Giue thy thoughts no tongue,
See what a grace was seated on his Brow,
  Ser. Saylors sir, they say they haue Letters for you
Set your entreatments at a higher rate,
Shakespeare did not actually write the play in this manner. . . .
Shall you my Sonne; you haue me, haue you not?
Shardes, Flints, and Peebles, should be throwne on her:
Shark'd vp a List of Landlesse Resolutes,
She married. O most wicked speed, to post
She seeing him a-sleepe, leaues him. Anon comes in a Fellow,
She should in ground vnsanctified haue lodg'd,
She's so coniunctiue to my life, and soule;
She turnes to Fauour, and to prettinesse
Shewes it selfe pure. He weepes for what is done
Shew me the steepe and thorny way to Heauen;
Should be as mortall as an old mans life?
Should haue a backe or second, that might hold,
Should haue kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt,
Should patch a Wall, t' expell the winters flaw.
Since Frost it selfe, as actiuely doth burne,
Since Nature makes them partiall, should o're-heare
Since loue our hearts, and Hymen did our hands
Since my deere Soule was Mistris of my choyse,
Since not th' exterior, nor the inward man
Since yet thy Cicatrice lookes raw and red
Sindging his pate against the burning Zone,
Sings.
Sir, in this Audience,
Sir, this is the matter
Sir, this same Scull sir, was Yoricks Scull, the Kings Iester
Sir though I am not Spleenatiue, and rash,
Sir, you are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is at
Sith you haue heard, and with a knowing eare,
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
Sleepes
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
     "Small Print!" statement.
So Lust, though to a radiant Angell link'd,
So Vnckle there you are: now to my word;
So as a painted Tyrant Pyrrhus stood,
So bloodily hast strooke
So by his Father lost: and this (I take it)
So by my former Lecture and aduice
So crimefull, and so Capitall in Nature,
So excellent a King, that was to this
So farre from cheere, and from your former state,
So fast they'l follow: your Sister's drown'd Laertes
So frown'd he once, when in an angry parle
So full of Artlesse iealousie is guilt,
So grace and mercy at your most neede helpe you:
So hallow'd, and so gracious is the time
So horridly to shake our disposition,
So leuied as before, against the Poleak:
Some little time: so by your Companies
Some sayes, that euer 'gainst that Season comes
Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
So mortall, I but dipt a knife in it,
So much as from Occasions you may gleane,
So much from th' vnderstanding of himselfe,
Songs? Your flashes of Merriment that were wont to
So nightly toyles the subiect of the Land,
So, please take this into account when reading the comments below
So prosperously be deliuer'd of.
So runnes the world away.
So tell him with the occurrents more and lesse,
So thinke thou wilt no second Husband wed.
So to seduce? Won to this shamefull Lust
So. . .with this caveat. . .we have NOT changed the canon errors,
So would I ha done by yonder Sunne,
Spade; heere's fine Reuolution, if wee had the tricke to
Speake lowdly for him.
Speake man
Speake of it. Stay, and speake. Stop it Marcellus
Speake to her Hamlet
Speake to me. If there be any good thing to be done,
Sport and repose locke from me day and night:
Sprinkle coole patience. Whereon do you looke?
Sprung from neglected loue. How now Ophelia?
Spurnes enuiously at Strawes, speakes things in doubt,
Stand dumbe and speake not to him. This to me
Start vp, and stand an end. Oh gentle Sonne,
Stew'd in Corruption; honying and making loue
Sticke fiery off indeede
Still am I cal'd? Vnhand me Gentlemen:
Stood Challenger on mount of all the Age
Stoopes to his Bace, and with a hideous crash
Strengthen your patience in our last nights speech,
Striking too short at Greekes. His anticke Sword,
Subscrib'd it, gau't th' impression, plac't it safely,
Such Loue, must needs be Treason in my brest:
Such as it is: and for mine owne poore part,
Such deere concernings hide, Who would do so,
Such was the very Armour he had on,
Sweare
Sweare by my Sword
Sweare by my sword
Sweet, leaue me heere a while,
THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
Taint not thy mind; nor let thy Soule contriue
Take each mans censure; but reserue thy iudgement:
Take it to heart? Fye, 'tis a fault to Heauen,
Take my leaue of you
Taken to Wife; nor haue we heerein barr'd
Takes Prisoner Pyrrhus eare. For loe, his Sword
Take these againe, for to the Noble minde
Take vp the body; Such a sight as this
Take you as 'twere some distant knowledge of him,
T' assume a pleasing shape, yea and perhaps
Teares in his eyes, distraction in's Aspect,
Tell him his prankes haue been too broad to beare with,
Tell him that by his license, Fortinbras
Tempest, and (as I say) the Whirle-winde of
Tempt him with speed aboord:
Th' Associates tend, and euery thing at bent
That Father lost, lost his, and the Suruiuer bound
That Flesh is heyre too? 'Tis a consummation
That I am guiltlesse of your Fathers death,
That I distrust you: yet though I distrust,
That I essentially am not in madnesse,
That I haue? He would drowne the Stage with teares,
That I haue longed long to re-deliuer.
That I haue possitiuely said, 'tis so,
That I haue shot mine Arrow o're the house,
That I haue vttered; bring me to the Test
That I in forgery of shapes and trickes,
That I must be their Scourge and Minister.
That I must call in question
That I shall liue and tell him to his teeth;
That I, the Sonne of the Deere murthered,
That I will speake to thee. Ile call thee Hamlet,
That Rosincrance and Guildensterne are dead:
That Soop-stake you will draw both Friend and Foe,
That Spirit, vpon whose spirit depends and rests
That Treason can but peepe to what it would,
That are but Mutes or audience to this acte:
That are so fortified against our Story,
That as the Starre moues not but in his Sphere,
That beetles o're his base into the Sea,
That being of so young dayes brought vp with him:
That blurres the grace and blush of Modestie,
That both the worlds I giue to negligence,
That can denote me truly. These indeed Seeme,
That cannot be, since I am still possest
That carry but halfe sense: Her speech is nothing,
That does afflict our Natures. I am sorrie,
That else leanes on th' Affaire, pray you make hast.
That euen our Loues should with our Fortunes change.
That euer I was borne to set it right.
That from a shelfe, the precious Diadem stole,
That from her working, all his visage warm'd;
That growes to Seed: Things rank, and grosse in Nature
That ha's no rellish of Saluation in't,
That hath a stomacke in't: which is no other
That he, as 'twere by accident, may there
That he could nothing doe but wish and begge,
That he cryed out, t'would be a sight indeed,
That hee is open to Incontinencie;
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'Tis true 'tis pittie,
That he might not beteene the windes of heauen
That he should weepe for her? What would he doe,
That he which hath your Noble Father slaine,
That if againe this Apparition come,
That is but scratcht withall: Ile touch my point,
That is not Passions Slaue, and I will weare him
That it did seeme to shatter all his bulke,
That it is proofe and bulwarke against Sense
That it might please you to giue quiet passe
That it went hand in hand, euen with the Vow
That laps't in Time and Passion, lets go by
That lend a tyrannous, and damned light
That liberall Shepheards giue a grosser name;
That liue and feede vpon your Maiestie
That makes Calamity of so long life:
That may to thee do ease, and grace to me; speak to me.
That might your nature honour, and exception
That no Reuennew hast, but thy good spirits
That not your trespasse, but my madnesse speakes:
That often Madnesse hits on,
That one may smile, and smile and be a Villaine;
That on the superuize no leasure bated,
That on the view and know of these Contents,
That open'd lies within our remedie
That our Deuices still are ouerthrowne,
That patient merit of the vnworthy takes,
That rots it selfe in ease, on Lethe Wharfe,
That's an ill Phrase, a vilde Phrase, beautified is a vilde
That shall not be my Offer, not thy Asking?
That she should locke her selfe from his Resort,
That shewes his hore leaues in the glassie streame:
That shew of such an exercise may colour
That's not my meaning: but breath his faults so quaintly,
That so his Sicknesse, Age, and Impotence
That suck'd the Honie of his Musicke Vowes:
That swift as Quick-siluer, it courses through
That they are not a Pipe for Fortunes finger.
That they doe know my sonne: Come you more neerer
That they may seeme the taints of liberty;
That thou dead Coarse againe in compleat steele,
That thou so many Princes, at a shoote,
That thus hath cousend you at hoodman-blinde?
That thus he suffers for
That thy Rebellion lookes so Gyant-like?
That to Laertes I forgot my selfe;
That vnmatch'd Forme and Feature of blowne youth,
That we are made of stuffe, so flat, and dull,
That we can let our Beard be shooke with danger,
That we finde out the cause of this effect,
That we with wisest sorrow thinke on him,
That with wings as swift
That would not let me sleepe; me thought I lay
That you at such time seeing me, neuer shall
That you bend your eye on vacancie,
That you haue tane his tenders for true pay,
That you know ought of me; this not to doe:
That you ore-stop not the modestie of Nature; for any
That your good Beauties be the happy cause
That youth and obseruation coppied there;
That you vouchsafe your rest heere in our Court
T'haue seene what I haue seene: see what I see.
Thaw, and resolue it selfe into a Dew:
The Apparition comes. I knew your Father:
The Barke is readie, and the winde at helpe,
The Bell then beating one
The Bird of Dawning singeth all night long:
The Canker Galls, the Infants of the Spring
The Cannons to the Heauens, the Heauen to Earth,
The Cat will Mew, and Dogge will haue his day.
The Coarse they follow, did with disperate hand,
The Cocke that is the Trumpet to the day,
The Courtiers, Soldiers, Schollers: Eye, tongue, sword,
The Frenchman gaue you, bring you in fine together,
The Glow-worme showes the Matine to be neere,
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
The Hand more instrumentall to the Mouth,
The Harlots Cheeke beautied with plaist'ring Art
The Hart vngalled play:
The Head is not more Natiue to the Heart,
The Heart-ake, and the thousand Naturall shockes
The King shal drinke to Hamlets better breath,
The Letter.
The Lists, and full proportions are all made
The Ocean (ouer-peering of his List)
The Oppressors wrong, the poore mans Contumely,
The Origin and Commencement of this greefe
The Portraiture of his; Ile count his fauours:
***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
The Queene Carowses to thy fortune, Hamlet
The Queene, the Courtiers. Who is that they follow,
The Ratifiers and props of euery word,
The Serpent that did sting thy Fathers life,
The Slings and Arrowes of outragious Fortune,
The Souldiours Musicke, and the rites of Warre
The Soule of Nero, enter this firme bosome:
The Sourse of this our Watch, and the cheefe head
The Sun no sooner shall the Mountaines touch,
The Tragedie of Hamlet
The Tragedie of Hamlet
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************
The Treacherous Instrument is in thy hand,
The Trumpet to the Cannoneer without,
The answer is that they MAY have packed "liue" into a cliche at a
The better to beguile. This is for all:
The bold windes speechlesse, and the Orbe below
The changeling neuer knowne: Now, the next day
The chariest Maid is Prodigall enough,
The counterfet presentment of two Brothers:
The death I gaue him: so againe, good night.
The diuell himselfe
The eares are senselesse that should giue vs hearing,
The effects of what I wrote?
The elongated S's have been changed to small s's and the
     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
Theeues of Mercy, but they knew what they did. I am to doe
The faire Ophelia? Nimph, in thy Orizons
The flash and out-breake of a fiery minde,
The friends thou hast, and their adoption tride,
The glasse of Fashion, and the mould of Forme,
The great man downe, you marke his fauourites flies,
The head and sourse of all your Sonnes distemper
The hearers to Collection; they ayme at it,
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
The insolence of Office, and the Spurnes
The instant Burst of Clamour that she made
The interim's mine, and a mans life's no more
The inward seruice of the Minde and Soule
Their grand Commission, where I found Horatio,
Their owne ennactors with themselues destroy:
The kettle Drum and Trumpet thus bray out
The leaperous Distilment; whose effect
The liues of many, the cease of Maiestie
The memory be greene: and that it vs befitted
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it:
Then I to Hercules. Within a Moneth?
Then a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Then are dream't of in our Philosophy. But come,
The naturall Gates and Allies of the body;
Thence to a Lightnesse, and by this declension
Thence to a Watch, thence into a Weaknesse,
The neede we haue to vse you, did prouoke
Then flye to others that we know not of.
Then goes he to the length of all his arme;
The nights are wholsome, then no Planets strike,
Then is my deede, to my most painted word.
Then is the Throne of Denmarke to thy Father.
Then may be giuen you. In few, Ophelia,
Then that which deerest Father beares his Sonne,
Then the maine voyce of Denmarke goes withall.
Then to Entreatie
Then to say one: but I am very sorry good Horatio,
Then trip him, that his heeles may kicke at Heauen,
Then venome to thy worke.
Then vp he rose, & don'd his clothes, & dupt the chamber dore,
Then weight what losse your Honour may sustaine,
Then young Laertes, in a Riotous head,
Then your particular demands will touch it,
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
The pangs of dispriz'd Loue, the Lawes delay,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The poore aduanc'd, makes Friends of Enemies:
The potent poyson quite ore-crowes my spirit,
The present death of Hamlet. Do it England,
There are more things in Heauen and Earth, Horatio,
There falling out at Tennis; or perchance,
Therefore I haue intreated him along
Therefore let's follow.
Therefore our sometimes Sister, now our Queene,
Therefore, since Breuitie is the Soule of Wit,
There is a Play to night to before the King.
There is no shuffling, there the Action lyes
There my Lord
There on the pendant boughes, her Coronet weeds
There's a Diuinity that shapes our ends,
There's such Diuinity doth hedge a King,
There's trickes i'th' world, and hems, and beats her heart,
(Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate Pride)
There was for a while, no mony bid for argument,
There was he gaming, there o'retooke in's Rouse,
There with fantasticke Garlands did she come,
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose Sable Armes
The sanctity and health of the whole State.
*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*
These Foyles haue all a length.
These, but the Trappings, and the Suites of woe
These good Fellowes will bring thee where I am. Rosincrance
These hands are not more like
These profound heaues
These words like Daggers enter in mine eares.
The speech of vantage. Fare you well my Liege,
The suppliance of a minute? No more
The tedious day with sleepe
The termes of our estate, may not endure
The text I have used was a composite of more than 30 different
The thin and wholsome blood: so did it mine;
The time is out of ioynt: Oh cursed spight,
The triumph of his Pledge
The vertue of his feare: but you must feare
The very cause of Hamlets Lunacie
The very faculty of Eyes and Eares. Yet I,
The very soule, and sweete Religion makes
The violence of other Greefe or Ioy,
The vndiscouered Countrey, from whose Borne
The vnseene good old man
The which he loued passing well
The will of my most seeming vertuous Queene:
The winde sits in the shoulder of your saile,
The woman will be out: Adue my Lord,
Th' expectansie and Rose of the faire State,
Th' extrauagant, and erring Spirit, hyes
They are not neere my Conscience; their debate
They cry choose we? Laertes shall be King,
They finde vs touch'd, we will our Kingdome giue,
They foole me to the top of my bent.
They had begun the Play. I sate me downe,
They haue proclaim'd their Malefactions.
The youth you breath of guilty, be assur'd
They play.
They say, he made a good end;
They shall go farre with little
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
They were giuen me by Claudio, he receiu'd them
Thicke and vnwholsome in their thoughts, and whispers
Th' imperiall Ioyntresse of this warlike State,
Th' important acting of your dread command? Oh say
Thine euermore most deere Lady, whilst this
(Things standing thus vnknowne) shall liue behind me.
This Graue shall haue a liuing Monument:
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
This Physicke but prolongs thy sickly dayes.
This Play is the Image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago
This Realme dismantled was of Ioue himselfe,
This Spirit dumbe to vs, will speake to him:
This aboue all; to thine owne selfe be true:
This boades some strange erruption to our State
This bodilesse Creation extasie is very cunning in
*****This file should be named 2265.txt or 2265.zip******
This gentle and vnforc'd accord of Hamlet
This in Obedience hath my daughter shew'd me:
This is one Lucianus nephew to the King
This is our 3rd edition of most of these plays.  See the index.
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
This is the very extasie of Loue,
This mad yong man. But so much was our loue,
This maruell to you
This must be knowne, being kept close might moue
This must be so. We pray you throw to earth
This must not be: and then, I Precepts gaue her,
This night to play before him
This presence knowes,
This present Obiect made probation
This sodaine sending him away, must seeme
This something setled matter in his heart:
This vnpreuayling woe, and thinke of vs
This was sometime a Paradox, but now the time giues it
This was your Husband. Looke you now what followes.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
Th' obseru'd of all Obseruers, quite, quite downe.
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
Thou find'st to be too busie, is some danger.
Though Lewdnesse court it in a shape of Heauen:
Though all the earth orewhelm them to mens eies.
Though inclination be as sharpe as will:
Though nothing sure, yet much vnhappily
Thoughts
Thou hast cleft my heart in twaine
Thou know'st already
Thou know'st 'tis common, all that liues must dye,
Thou liu'st, report me and my causes right
Thou mixture ranke, of Midnight Weeds collected,
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soule,
Thou wretched, rash, intruding foole farewell,
Threatning the flame
(Three Pages)
Through your Dominions, for his Enterprize,
Throwne out his Angle for my proper life,
Thus Conscience does make Cowards of vs all,
Thus bad begins and worse remaines behinde
Thus diddest thou
Thus it remaines, and the remainder thus. Perpend,
Thus much the businesse is. We haue heere writ
Thus set it downe. He shall with speed to England
Thus was I, sleeping, by a Brothers hand,
Th' vnnerued Father fals. Then senselesse Illium,
Thy face is valiant since I saw thee last: Com'st thou to
Thy knotty and combined lockes to part,
Thy naturall Magicke, and dire propertie,
Till I haue caught her once more in mine armes:
Till by some elder Masters of knowne Honor,
Till of this flat a Mountaine you haue made,
Till our Scale turnes the beame. Oh Rose of May,
Till that her garments, heauy with her drinke,
Till the foule crimes done in my dayes of Nature
Till the last Trumpet. For charitable praier,
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Till then sit still my soule; foule deeds will rise,
Time qualifies the sparke and fire of it:
'Tis dangerous, when the baser nature comes
'Tis heauie with him: and am I then reueng'd,
'Tis meete that some more audience then a Mother,
'Tis not alone my Inky Cloake (good Mother)
'Tis now the verie witching time of night,
'Tis strange
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
'Tis too much prou'd, that with Deuotions visage,
To England send him: Or confine him where
To Norway, Vncle of young Fortinbras,
To Reason most absurd, whose common Theame
To access Project Gutenberg etexts, use any Web browser
To an exployt now ripe in my Deuice,
To be a preparation 'gainst the Poleak:
To beare our hearts in greefe, and our whole Kingdome
To be commanded
To be contracted in one brow of woe:
To be fore-stalled ere we come to fall,
To both your Honors
To businesse with the King, more then the scope
To cast beyond our selues in our Opinions,
To cast thee vp againe? What may this meane?
To censure of his seeming
To contract O the time for a my behoue,
To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
To do obsequious Sorrow. But to perseuer
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
To eares of flesh and bloud; list Hamlet, oh list,
To feed & cloath thee. Why shold the poor be flatter'd?
To flaming youth, let Vertue be as waxe.
Together with all Formes, Moods, shewes of Griefe,
Together with remembrance of our selues.
Together with that Faire and Warlike forme
To giue in euidence. What then? What rests?
To giue it due content
To giue th' assay of Armes against your Maiestie.
To giue them Seales, neuer my Soule consent.
To giue these mourning duties to your Father:
To giue the world assurance of a man.
To go directly to the etext collections, use FTP or any
To grunt and sweat vnder a weary life,
To haue prou'd most royally:
To heare, and see the matter
To heare him so inclin'd. Good Gentlemen,
To heare of it: They are about the Court,
To heare the Processe. Ile warrant shee'l tax him home,
To heauen. Oh this is hyre and Sallery, not Reuenge.
To hell Allegeance: Vowes, to the blackest diuell.
To him from whom you brought them.
To his Confine. And of the truth heerein,
To his vnmastred importunity.
To keepe it from divulging, let's it feede
To keepe it selfe from noyance: but much more,
To keepe my name vngorg'd. But till that time,
To keepe those many many bodies safe
To lacke discretion. Come, go we to the King,
To lay our Seruices freely at your feete,
To let his madnesse range. Therefore prepare you,
To let them know both what we meane to do,
To let this Canker of our nature come
To let you know of it
To make Oppression bitter, or ere this,
To make it truster of your owne report
To make them ranke. Forgiue me this my Vertue,
To mine Sprindge, Osricke,
To mine owne roome againe, making so bold,
To morrow is S[aint]. Valentines day, all in the morning betime,
To muddy death
To my Reuenge. But in my termes of Honor
To my sicke soule (as sinnes true Nature is)
To offer it the shew of Violence,
Too oft before the buttons be disclos'd,
To o're top old Pelion, or the skyish head
Too slightly timbred for so loud a Winde,
To our most valiant Brother. So much for him.
To outface me with leaping in her Graue?
To pay our selues, what to our selues is debt:
To pricke and sting her. Fare thee well at once;
To punish me with this, and this with me,
To put an Anticke disposition on:)
To quit him with this arme? And is't not to be damn'd
To shew his Greefes: let her be round with him,
To shew my duty in your Coronation,
To shew vs so much Gentrie, and good will,
To show your selfe your Fathers sonne indeed,
To sing sage Requiem, and such rest to her
To sleepe, perchance to Dreame; I, there's the rub,
To sound what stop she please. Giue me that man,
To speake of horrors: he comes before me
To take him in the purging of his Soule,
To tell him his command'ment is fulfill'd,
To tell my Storie.
To tell the secrets of my Prison-House;
To th' Ambassadors of England giues this warlike volly
To the Celestiall, and my Soules Idoll, the most beautifed Ophelia.
To the Inheritance of Fortinbras,
To their vilde Murthers, roasted in wrath and fire,
To the next abstinence. Once more goodnight,
To these delights
To the vnsatisfied
To those of mine. But Vertue, as it neuer wil be moued,
To try Conclusions in the Basket, creepe
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seene of vs,
To wash it white as Snow? Whereto serues mercy,
To what I shall vnfold
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To whose huge Spoakes, ten thousand lesser things
To you alone
To you in satisfaction. But if not,
To youth and liberty
To you your selfe, to vs, to euery one.
Tragicall-Historicall: Tragicall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
Treacherie, seeke it out
Truly deliuer
Trumpets sound, and shot goes off.
Try what Repentance can. What can it not?
Tweakes me by'th' Nose? giues me the Lye i'th' Throate,
'Twere better not assaid; therefore this Proiect
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
     University" within the 60 days following each
Vertue it selfe, of Vice must pardon begge,
Vertue it selfe scapes not calumnious stroakes,
Very well said. Looke you Sir,
Videlicet, a Brothell, or so forth. See you now;
Visit her face too roughly. Heauen and Earth
Vnbated and envenom'd: the foule practise
Vnder the Moone, can saue the thing from death,
Vnder the which he shall not choose but fall;
Vngartred, and downe giued to his Anckle,
Vnhouzzled, disappointed, vnnaneld,
Vnite comutuall, in most sacred Bands
(Vnlesse things mortall moue them not at all)
Vnmixt with baser matter; yes yes, by Heauen:
Vnpegge the Basket on the houses top:
Vnsifted in such perillous Circumstance.
Vntill my eielids will no longer wag
Vnto that Element: but long it could not be,
Vnto the voyce and yeelding of that Body,
Vnto yong Hamlet. For vpon my life,
   Volt. In that, and all things, will we shew our duty
  Volt. Most faire returne of Greetings, and Desires.
Vouchers vouch him no more of his Purchases, and double
Vp Sword, and know thou a more horrid hent
Vpon a fearfull Summons. I haue heard,
Vpon a wretch, whose Naturall gifts were poore
Vpon my secure hower thy Vncle stole
Vpon our first, he sent out to suppresse
Vpon the Platforme twixt eleuen and twelue,
Vpon the heate and flame of thy distemper
Vpon the witnesse of these Gentlemen,
Vpon whose property, and most deere life,
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
Walkes o're the dew of yon high Easterne Hill,
Wards, and Dungeons; Denmarke being one o'th'
Warlicke appointment gaue vs Chace. Finding our selues too
Was (as you know) by Fortinbras of Norway,
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out Arrests
Was gaged by our King: which had return'd
Was not like Madnesse. There's something in his soule?
Was our Sea Fight, and what to this was sement,
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Neuer Hamlet.
We are arrant Knaues all, beleeue none of vs. Goe thy
We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
Web browser to visit a Project Gutenberg mirror (mirror
We begge your hearing Patientlie
We cannot get from him
We do it wrong, being so Maiesticall
Wee'l make a solemne wager on your commings,
Wee'l put on those shall praise your excellence,
Wee'l put the matter to the present push:
Wee'l teach you to drinke deepe, ere you depart
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
We heard it all. My Lord, do as you please,
Weigh what conuenience both of time and meanes
**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
Well ratified by Law, and Heraldrie,
We may of their encounter frankely iudge,
We must with all our Maiesty and Skill
We need your donations more than ever!
We ore-wrought on the way: of these we told him,
We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
Were nothing but to waste Night, Day, and Time.
Were thicker then it selfe with Brothers blood,
We shall expresse our dutie in his eye,
We should prophane the seruice of the dead,
We will bestow our selues: Reade on this booke,
We would not vnderstand what was most fit,
We would prefer to send you this information by email.
What I haue said to you
What Maiestie should be, what Dutie is,
What a piece of worke is a man! how Noble in
What company, at what expence: and finding
What does this meane my Lord?
What feast is toward in thine eternall Cell.
What forgeries you please; marry, none so ranke,
What haue you giuen him any hard words of late?
What is betweene you, giue me vp the truth?
What is't, but to be nothing else but mad.
What is the issue of the businesse there
What is the reason that you vse me thus?
What might be toward, that this sweaty hast
What might you thinke? No, I went round to worke,
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
What sayes Pollonius?
What should this meane? Are all the rest come backe?
What's neere it, with it. It is a massie wheele
What thinke you on't?
What thou hast saide to me
What to our selues in passion we propose,
What warlike noyse is this?
What we two Nights haue seene
What would'st thou haue Laertes?
When Churchyards yawne, and Hell it selfe breaths out
When I had seene this hot loue on the wing,
When I to sulphurous and tormenting Flames
When Rossius an Actor in Rome-
When all other email fails. . .try our Executive Director:
When downe the weedy Trophies, and her selfe,
When he himselfe might his Quietus make
When he is drunke asleepe: or in his Rage,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage? No.
When he lay couched in the Ominous Horse,
When it prou'd otherwise?
When our deare plots do paule, and that should teach vs,
When second Husband kisses me in Bed
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
When sorrowes comes, they come not single spies,
When th' Ambitious Norwey combatted:
When that her Golden Cuplet are disclos'd;
When the Bloud burnes, how Prodigall the Soule
When the compulsiue Ardure giues the charge,
When thou liest howling?
When we haue shuffel'd off this mortall coile,
When we would bring him on to some Confession
When yond same Starre that's Westward from the Pole
Where Ioy most Reuels, Greefe doth most lament;
Whereas they had deliuer'd both in time,
Where be your Iibes now? Your Gambals? Your
Where euery God did seeme to set his Seale,
Wherein Ile catch the Conscience of the King.
Where in necessitie of matter Beggard,
Wherein our Sauiours Birch is celebrated,
Wherein the Spirit held his wont to walke.
Wherein we saw thee quietly enurn'd,
Where is your Sonne?
Where it drawes blood, no Cataplasme so rare,
Where late the Diadem stood, and for a Robe
Where now it burnes, Marcellus and my selfe,
Whereof he is the Head. Then if he sayes he loues you,
Whereon his Braines still beating, puts him thus
Whereon old Norwey, ouercome with ioy,
Where should we haue our thankes?
Where thrift may follow faining? Dost thou heare,
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeede
Where we shall finde him most conueniently.
Where you may see the inmost part of you?
Whether Loue lead Fortune, or else Fortune Loue.
Whether in Sea, or Fire, in Earth, or Ayre,
Whether 'tis Nobler in the minde to suffer
Which I haue told thee, of my Fathers death.
Which Reason and Sanitie could not
Which are not starling. Tender your selfe more dearly;
Which are to claime, my vantage doth
Which as her winkes, and nods, and gestures yeeld them,
Which bewept to the graue did not go,
Which done, she tooke the Fruites of my Aduice,
(Which happily foreknowing may auoyd) Oh speake.
Which haue solicited. The rest is silence. O, o, o, o.
Which he stood seiz'd on, to the Conqueror:
Which is the Mightier, in his lawlesse fit
Which let thy wisenesse feare. Away thy hand
Which may to you (perhaps) seeme much vnsinnowed,
Which might depriue your Soueraignty of Reason,
Which now goes too free-footed
Which now like Fruite vnripe stickes on the Tree,
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
Which was declining on the Milkie head
Which was the Modell of that Danish Seale:
Which we do tender, as we deerely greeue
Whilst like a puft and recklesse Libertine
Whil'st ranke Corruption mining all within,
White his Shrow'd as the Mountaine Snow
Who Impotent and Bedrid, scarsely heares
Who? What an Asse am I? I sure, this is most braue,
Who calles me Villaine? breakes my pate a-crosse?
Who dipping all his Faults in their affection,
Who does it then? His Madnesse? If't be so,
Who in her Dutie and Obedience, marke,
Who is't that can informe me?
Who like not in their iudgement, but their eyes:
Whose Blood and Iudgement are so well co-mingled,
Whose Image euen but now appear'd to vs,
Whose doe you thinke it was?
Whose motiue in this case should stirre me most
Whose violent property foredoes it selfe,
Whose voyce will draw on more:
Whose wicked deed, thy most Ingenious sence
Who this had seene, with tongue in Venome steep'd,
Who was (if praises may go backe againe)
Who was in life, a foolish prating Knaue.
Why day is day; night, night; and time is time,
Why do's the Drumme come hither?
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
Why may not Imagination trace the Noble dust of Alexander,
Why seemes it so particular with thee
Why should we in our peeuish Opposition
Why such impresse of Ship-wrights, whose sore Taske
Why then belike he likes it not perdie.
Why this same strict and most obseruant Watch,
Why thou art thus Incenst? Let him go Gertrude.
Why thy Canoniz'd bones Hearsed in death,
Why to a publike count I might not go,
Why you proceeded not against these feates,
Will be some danger, which to preuent
Will bring him to his wonted way againe,
Will nothing sticke our persons to Arraigne
Will not peruse the Foiles? So that with ease,
Will sate it selfe in a Celestiall bed, & prey on Garbage.
Will so bestow our selues, that seeing vnseene
Will the King heare this peece of Worke?
Will want true colour; teares perchance for blood
Will you doe this, keepe close within your Chamber,
Will you two helpe to hasten them?
Winde is Southerly, I know a Hawke from a Handsaw.
Winner and Looser
With Armes encombred thus, or thus, head shake;
With Bisson Rheume: A clout about that head,
With Formes, to his Conceit? And all for nothing?
With Hecats Ban, thrice blasted, thrice infected,
With Heraldry more dismall: Head to foote
With Martiall stalke, hath he gone by our Watch
With a bare Bodkin? Who would these Fardles beare
With all his Crimes broad blowne, as fresh as May,
With all my imperfections on my head;
With all my loue I doe commend me to you;
With all the strength and Armour of the minde,
With an attent eare; till I may deliuer
With an intreaty heerein further shewne,
With blood of Fathers, Mothers, Daughters, Sonnes,
Withdraw, I heare him coming.
With eyes like Carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
With fierie Quicknesse. Therefore prepare thy selfe,
With hoo, such Bugges and Goblins in my life,
Within his Truncheons length; whilst they bestil'd
Within the Booke and Volume of my Braine,
Within the Center
With iuyce of cursed Hebenon in a Violl,
With lesse remorse then Pyrrhus bleeding sword
With mirth in Funerall, and with Dirge in Marriage,
With most myraculous Organ. Ile haue these Players,
With one Auspicious, and one Dropping eye,
Without debatement further, more or lesse,
Without the sensible and true auouch
Without the which we are Pictures, or meere Beasts.
With pestilent Speeches of his Fathers death,
With sore distraction? What I haue done
With such dexterity to Incestuous sheets:
With the braue Beast, so farre he past my thought,
With this Slaues Offall, bloudy: a Bawdy villaine,
With this affaire along, for all our Thankes.
With this contagion, that if I gall him slightly,
With this regard their Currants turne away,
With thoughts beyond thee; reaches of our Soules,
With tristfull visage as against the doome,
With true-loue showres
With turbulent and dangerous Lunacy
With variable Obiects, shall expell
With vs, to watch the minutes of this Night,
With which she followed my poore Fathers body
With windlesses, and with assaies of Bias,
With witchcraft of his wits, hath Traitorous guifts.
Woo't drinke vp Esile, eate a Crocodile?
Woo't weepe? Woo't fight? Woo't teare thy selfe?
Words without thoughts, neuer to Heauen go.
Worse then the mutines in the Bilboes, rashly,
Would I had met my dearest foe in heauen,
Would from a Paddocke, from a Bat, a Gibbe,
Would gamboll from. Mother, for loue of Grace,
Would harrow vp thy soule, freeze thy young blood,
Would haue made milche the Burning eyes of Heauen,
Would haue mourn'd longer) married with mine Vnkle,
Would haue reuerted to my Bow againe,
Would like the Spring that turneth Wood to Stone,
Would make them capeable. Do not looke vpon me,
Would not this Sir, and a Forrest of Feathers, if the rest of
Would quake to looke on. Soft now, to my Mother:
Would step from this, to this? What diuell was't,
Would'st thou not stirre in this. Now Hamlet heare:
Y'are welcome Masters, welcome all. I am glad to see
Yases, that crye out on the top of question; and
Yea courb, and woe, for leaue to do him good
Yea, from the Table of my Memory,
Yea this solidity and compound masse,
Yes faith, heartily
Yet haue I something in me dangerous,
Yet heere she is allowed her Virgin Rites,
Yet must not we put the strong Law on him:
Yet now I must confesse, that duty done,
Yet so farre hath Discretion fought with Nature,
Yet there is Method in't: will you walke
Yet the vnshaped vse of it doth moue
Yet what can it, when one cannot repent?
Yong men wil doo't, if they come too't,
You are the Queene, your Husbands Brothers wife,
You are the most immediate to our Throne,
You, as your busines and desires shall point you:
You cannot call it Loue: For at your age,
You cannot speake of Reason to the Dane,
You doe not vnderstand your selfe so cleerely,
You doe remember all the Circumstance
You do freely barre the doore of your owne Libertie,
You from the Polake warres, and you from England
You go not till I set you vp a glasse,
You good Cornelius, and you Voltemand,
You heauenly Guards. What would your gracious figure?
You laying these slight sulleyes on my Sonne,
You mainly were stirr'd vp?
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
You must not put another scandall on him,
You must not take for fire. For this time Daughter,
You must not thinke
You must translate; Tis fit we vnderstand them.
You neede not tell vs, what Lord Hamlet saide,
You promis'd me to Wed:
     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
Your Grace hath laide the oddes a'th' weaker side
Your Maiestie, and wee that haue free soules, it touches
Your Skill shall like a Starre i'th' darkest night,
Your Visitation shall receiue such thankes
Your bait of falshood, takes this Cape of truth;
Your bedded haire, like life in excrements,
Your better Wisedomes, which haue freely gone
Your leaue and fauour to returne to France,
Your lonelinesse. We are oft too blame in this,
Your sodaine comming ore to play with him;
Your wisedome best shall thinke
You that looke pale, and tremble at this chance,
Youth to it selfe rebels, though none else neere
You told vs of some suite. What is't Laertes?
You will find a lot of these kinds of "errors" in this text, as I
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
a Bakers daughter. Lord, wee know what we are, but
a Flourish.
a Progresse through the guts of a Begger
abbreviations as I have come across them.  Everything within
abhorred my Imagination is, my gorge rises at it. Heere
above. . .and you may wonder why they did it this way, presuming
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
accepts his
a copy of Shakespeare's first folio and it is as close as I can
admiration?
a fellow of infinite Iest; of most excellent fancy, he
after.
after his desart, and who should scape whipping: vse
against sixe French Swords: their Assignes, and three
against the which he impon'd as I take it, sixe French
ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's hope, a
a good turne for them. Let the King haue the Letters I haue
all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless a
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
a man do, but be merrie. For looke you how cheerefully
and
an Act: and an Act hath three branches. It is an
and Aunt Mother are deceiu'd
and Ceremony. Let me comply with you in the Garbe,
and Gauntlets, a Table and Flagons of Wine on it.
and Guildensterne, hold their course for England. Of them
and by what more deare, a better proposer could charge
and davidr@inconnect.com.  I hope that you enjoy this.
and drowne himselfe; it is will he nill he, he goes;
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
and good discretion
and go with vs to the King
and indeed, it goes so heauenly with my disposition;
and not made them well, they imitated Humanity so abhominably
and out-stretcht Heroes the Beggers Shadowes:
and presently
and so I thanke you for your good counsell. Come, my
and the Nation holds it no sinne, to tarre them to Controuersie.
and your leane Begger is but variable seruice to dishes,
anon: 'tis a knauish peece of worke: But what o'that?
answer, I will doe your Mothers command'ment:
a ones Horse, when he meant to begge it; might it not?
a prison
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
are most tyrannically clap't for't: these are now the
are presented herein:
are they?
are tickled a'th' sere: and the Lady shall say her minde
are too deare a halfepeny; were you not sent for? Is it
as if I had neuer beene such
as many of your Players do, I had as liue the Town-Cryer
as print was still quite expensive, and they didn't want to spend
assortment of sporadic gifts; this salary is only good for a few
assortment of these made available to him by Cambridge University
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
as they are. To a Nunnery, go.
a thousand pound. Did'st perceiue?
at http://promo.net/pg).
          author, and additional characters may be used to
author and by title, and includes information about how
a whole Theater of Others. Oh, there bee Players
be Lord of Beasts, and his Crib shall stand at the Kings
be a breeder of Sinners? I am my selfe indifferent honest,
beard me in Denmarke? What, my yong Lady and Mistris?
be differences (other than what I have mentioned above) between
been corrected, here are the first few lines of Hamlet, as they
beene a Gentlewoman, shee should haue beene buried
begin. Come, the croaking Rauen doth bellow for Reuenge
being a good kissing Carrion-
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
be not now; yet it will come; the readinesse is all, since no
best seruice in the end. He keepes them like an Ape in
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
blesse you Sir.
blessing, but not as your daughter may conceiue. Friend
boorded them: On the instant they got cleare of our Shippe, so
bosome, these
both?
both in reputation and profit was better both
boudge:
bound for England, if your name be Horatio, as I am let
brackets [] is what I have added.  So if you don't like that
built stronger then the Church: Argall, the Gallowes
buriall
but Gardiners, Ditchers and Graue-makers; they hold vp
but I cannot choose but weepe, to thinke they should
but I thanke you: and sure deare friends my thanks
but to one Table that's the end
but to the matter. My Mother you say
but yet I could accuse me of such things, that it were better
by William Shakespeare
by the Carde, or equiuocation will vndoe vs: by the
call them) that many wearing Rapiers, are affraide of
came to passe, as most like it was: The first rowe of the
cannot keepe counsell, they'l tell all
cannot so innocculate our old stocke, but we shall rellish
carriages, and of very liberall conceit
cd etext90 through etext99
cd pub/docs/books/gutenberg
censure of the which One, must in your allowance o'reway
     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
cheefe Speech in it, I cheefely lou'd, 'twas Aeneas Tale
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
come, a passionate speech
come in ASCII to the printed text.
comes so neere the heeles of our Courtier, hee galls his
conjoined ae have been changed to ae.  I have left the spelling,
continuing the printing run.  The proof run wasn't thrown away but
conuocation of wormes are e'ne at him. Your worm
copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
copyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT keep any
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
could hee digge without Armes? Ile put another question
count my selfe a King of infinite space; were it not that
     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
deale iustly with me: come, come; nay speake
deare to fancy, very responsiue to the hilts, most delicate
declines his head vpon her neck. Layes him downe vpon a Banke
deserue, the more merit is in your bountie. Take them
differences between various copies of the first folio.  So there may
dir [to see files]
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
distribute it in the United States without permission and
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
doe's he suffer this rude knaue now to knocke him about
          does *not* contain characters other than those
does well; but how does it well? it does well to those
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
don't want Project Gutenberg to be so dependent on one person.
do them wrong, to make them exclaim against their
download our past Newsletters, or subscribe here.  This
do you go about to recouer the winde of mee, as if you
drowne or hang themselues, more then their euen Christian.
dull Asse will not mend his pace with beating; and when
dumbe, yet are they much too light for the bore of the Matter.
eare a hearer: that great Baby you see there, is not yet
edge
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me it is
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.
end both at the first and now, was and is, to hold as 'twer
ere you go to bed
errors, or if you disagree with my spelling choices please feel
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
etext possible.  My email address for right now are haradda@aol.com
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
excellent Play; well digested in the Scoenes, set downe
excellent Voice, in this little Organe, yet cannot
extreme attachment to these errors, and many have accorded them a
fairely outward) should more appeare like entertainment
fashion, and so be-ratled the common Stages (so they
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
fauour she must come. Make her laugh at that: prythee
files per month, or 432 more Etexts in 1999 for a total of 2000+
finde him not there, seeke him i'th other place your
finde it out.
fitted
flye death. I haue words to speake in your eare, will make thee
foolish eare
for England.
for Ile haue a suite of Sables. Oh Heauens! dye two moneths
for Wise men know well enough, what monsters you
for a more complete list of our various sites.
for and a shrowding-Sheete:
force of Honestie can translate Beautie into his likenesse.
for him. Ere we were two dayes old at Sea, a Pyrate of very
          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
for my part, I doe not lye in't; and yet it is mine
for signing his name with several different spellings.
for such a Guest is meete
for such a Guest is meete
for thy Dowrie. Be thou as chast as Ice, as pure as Snow,
for you Sir: It comes from th' Ambassadours that was
frame, and start not so wildely from my affayre
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
freely; or the blanke Verse shall halt for't: what Players
free to email me those errors.  I wish to make this the best
fretted with golden fire: why, it appeares no other thing
from Michael Hart's salary at Carnegie-Mellon University, and an
from you: wee coated them on the way, and hither are
ftp sunsite.unc.edu
further information is included below.  We need your donations.
gain-giuing as would perhaps trouble a woman
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
go backward
great folke should haue countenance in this world to
great mans Memorie, may out-liue his life halfe a yeare:
guilty of his owne death, shortens not his owne life
habit of setting the type and running off a number of copies and
had spoke my Lines: Nor do not saw the Ayre too much
hands, come: The appurtenance of Welcome, is Fashion
hardly lye in this Boxe; and must the Inheritor himselfe
hart@pobox.com forwards to hart@prairienet.org and archive.org
ha's teares in's eyes. Pray you no more
hath borne me on his backe a thousand times: And how
hath caught me in his clutch:
haue a Speech straight. Come giue vs a tast of your quality:
haue no more? ha?
haue such a Fellow whipt for o're-doing Termagant: it
have mentioned in other times and places, many "scholars" have an
head
hee is.
heere lies the point; If I drowne my selfe wittingly, it argues
heere, man and Boy thirty yeares
heere stands the man; good: If the man goe to this water
he is farre gone, farre gone: and truly in my youth,
here he sayes alone: Can you aduise me?
here is the Project Gutenberg Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie
her into amazement, and admiration
her owne defence?
he sings at Graue-making?
he suffer not thinking on, with the Hoby-horsse, whose
he will keepe out water a great while. And your water,
highly (not to speake it prophanely) that neyther hauing
him. She
him a-downe-a. Oh, how the wheele becomes it? It is
him; hee drownes not himselfe. Argall, hee that is not
himselfe, there are no tongues else for's tongue
his Action of Battery? hum. This fellow might be in's
his Fines, his double Vouchers, his Recoueries:
his Maiestie, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
his weapon
hold not off
honest
how expresse and admirable? in Action, how like an Angel?
hung those lipps, that I haue kist I know not how oft.
in
if I could see the Puppets dallying
if not, your pardon, and my returne shall bee the end of
if they should grow themselues to common Players (as
if you deny your greefes to your Friend
if your mail bounces from archive.org, I will still see it, if
     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
imediate tryall, if your Lordship would vouchsafe the
in England for several months in a glass room constructed for the
in apprehension, how like a God? the beauty of the
     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
incorporated into the printed copies.  This is just the way it is.
          indicate hypertext links; OR
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
. . .in great detail. . .and determined from the various changes,
in't?
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
in that. I will speake to this fellow: whose Graue's
in the Index
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
in this more then Naturall, if Philosophie could
into dust; the dust is earth; of earth we make
in tryall
is a sore Decayer of your horson dead body. Heres a Scull
is one of our major sites, please email hart@pobox.com,
is the Dukes name, his wife Baptista: you shall see
is too vnmannerly
is your onely Emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else
it. Adieu.
it. Go make you readie.
it bounces from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .
it could not moue thus
i'th' Vniuersity, you say?
i'th' earth?
i'th' world
it is most like if their meanes are not better) their Writers
it might be Hangers till then; but on sixe Barbary Horses
it to you trippingly on the Tongue: But if you mouth it,
iudgement in such matters, cried in the top of mine) an
kneeles, and makes shew of Protestation vnto him. He takes her
know him: he hath much Land, and fertile; let a Beast
know not what we may be. God be at your Table
laugh, cannot but make the Iudicious greeue; The
lay him i'th' cold ground: My brother shall knowe of it,
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
lest my extent to the Players (which I tell you must shew
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
liberall conceited Carriages, that's the French but against
life
light a quality, that it is but a shadowes shadow
like a Camell
login: anonymous
longer then they can sing? Will they not say afterwards
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
looke too't
look you, this braue ore-hanging, this Maiesticall Roofe,
loue.
loue of Gonzago's wife
lyest
mad as he
made by our volunteer who prepared this file:  you may see errors
make of them. To a Nunnery go, and quickly too. Farwell
man: I am most dreadfully attended; but in the beaten
manage to get some real funding; currently our funding is mostly
man ha's ought of what he leaues. What is't to leaue betimes?
many pocky Coarses now adaies, that will scarce hold
marke you that? But if the water come to him & drowne
married already, all but one shall liue, the rest shall keep
matter: If we could carry Cannon by our sides; I would
may doe well to thee. Too't againe, Come
may giue it Smoothnesse. O it offends mee to the Soule,
may have other legal rights.
meanes
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.
medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
me thought it was very sweete:
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
might be my Lord such a one, that prais'd my Lord such
might be the Pate of a Polititian which this Asse o're Offices:
might they not stopp a Beere-barrell?
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-six text
mock him not. My good Friends, Ile leaue you til night
more Choller
more on a wider selection of characters than they had to.
more years, so we are looking for something to replace it, as we
most powerfully, and potently beleeue; yet I holde it
mouth, and it will discourse most excellent Musicke.
murther of Gonzago?
my Businesse
my Fortunes turne Turke with me; with two Prouinciall
my Mother had not borne me. I am very prowd, reuengefull,
my Mother lookes, and my Father dyed within's two
my heart: but it is no matter
name's Gonzago: the Story is extant and writ in choyce
need study a speech of some dosen or sixteene lines, which
     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
neuer Acted: or if it was, not aboue once, for the Play I
new copy has at least one byte more or less.
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
nor Woman neither; though by your smiling you seeme
nor no matter in the phrase, that might indite the
not Honestie to haue it thus set downe: For you your
not, Ile gaine nothing but my shame, and the odde hits
nothing, but inexplicable dumbe shewes, & noise: I could
not me?
not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in
not true. Let me question more in particular: what haue
now: this Scul, has laine in the earth three & twenty years
oddes: but thou wouldest not thinke how all heere about
of Flowers.
of Hamlet.
of Players sir
of Priams slaughter. If it liue in your memory, begin at
of a Dreame
of dirt
off.
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
of her fauour?
of hermony, I haue not the skill
of it. I loued you not
of my Mysterie; you would sound mee from my lowest
of spirit, hath sent me to you
of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 Etexts unless we
of the Play be then to be considered: that's Villanous, &
of the late Innouation?
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.
of these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.
on't
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
once: how the knaue iowles it to th' grownd, as if it
one man pick'd out of two thousand
ones too, then the length and breadth of a paire of
one that could circumuent God, might it not?
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
or:
or Norman, haue so strutted and bellowed, that I haue
or a Carpenter?
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.
original meaning of the term cliche. . .and thus, being unwilling
or letters they had often packed into a "cliche". . .this is the
          or other equivalent proprietary form).
or rather you say, my Mother: therfore no more
other Lords attendant with his Guard carrying Torches. Danish
ouer-done, or come tardie off, though it make the vnskilfull
our youth, by the Obligation of our euer-preserued loue,
outHerod's Herod. Pray you auoid it
out of Christian Buriall
out of his swathing clouts
owne. Besides, to be demanded of a Spundge, what replication
owne Succession
pace; But there is Sir an ayrie of Children, little
password: your@login
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
peace: the Clowne shall make those laugh whose lungs
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
place of some "w"'s, etc.  This was a common practice of the day,
plaid on, then a Pipe? Call me what Instrument you will,
play the Foole no way, but in's owne house. Farewell
play your Clownes, speake no more then is set downe for
pleasure
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
preuent your discouery of your secricie to the King and
printed text.  I have corrected some spelling mistakes (I have put
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
proofe. I did loue you once
punctuation, capitalization as close as possible to the
purer Shakespeare.
purpose.  To the best of my knowledge he read ALL those available
receive it electronically.
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
reckon my grones; but that I loue thee best, oh most Best beleeue
remember pleas'd not the Million, 'twas Cauiarie to the
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
rest of my seruants: for to speake to you like an honest
say on: He's for a Iigge, or a tale of Baudry, or hee
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
seeme to know my stops: you would pluck out the heart
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding, but
selfe Sir, should be old as I am, if like a Crab you could
selfe: but indeed, if you finde him not this moneth, you
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
sent, and repaire thou to me with as much hast as thou wouldest
sent for; and there is a kinde confession in your lookes;
set the Table on a Rore? No one now to mock your own
shall nose him as you go vp the staires into the Lobby
shall wee to th' Court: for, by my fey I cannot reason?
shee's dead
she is a Strumpet. What's the newes?
shewes a most pittifull Ambition in the Foole that vses
should admit no discourse to your Beautie
should be made by the Sonne of a King
sites are available on 7 continents; mirrors are listed
sleepes. Say on; come to Hecuba
slow of Saile, we put on a compelled Valour. In the Grapple, I
some Violets, but they wither'd all when my Father dyed:
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
something musty.
soone. Good my Lord, will you see the Players wel bestow'd.
speake to him againe. What do you read my Lord?
spellings according to this template), typo's and expanded
straight, the Crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
suck't it: thus had he and mine more of the same Beauty
sweet Lord: how dost thou, good Lord? this
takes off his
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law.  (CMU = Carnegie-
th'Hyrcanian Beast. It is not so: it begins with Pyrrhus
th' Occasions of my sodaine, and more strange returne.
that I haue seene Play, and heard others praise, and that
that I know the drossie age dotes on; only got the tune of
that I loue passing well
that Shakespeare most likely did not write in nearly as many of a
that are "not" errors. . . .
that doe ill: now, thou dost ill to say the Gallowes is
that look very odd. . .such as the exchanges of u for v, v for u,
that old men haue gray Beards; that their faces are wrinkled;
that our last King Hamlet o'recame Fortinbras
that she sends you to Prison hither?
that this goodly frame the Earth, seemes to me a sterrill
that was mad, and sent into England
the Abstracts and breefe Chronicles of the time. After
the Age is growne so picked, that the toe of the Pesant
the Ayre promise-cramm'd, you cannot feed Capons so
the Danish; why is this impon'd as you call it?
the Foyles bee brought, the Gentleman willing, and the
the King himselfe, for your Succession in Denmarke?
the Mirrour vp to Nature; to shew Vertue her owne
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
the Question
the Sconce with a dirty Shouell, and will not tell him of
the Scripture? the Scripture sayes Adam dig'd;
the Tragedians of the City
the Word to the Action, with this speciall obseruance:
the accent of Christians, nor the gate of Christian, Pagan,
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!
the corner of his iaw, first mouth'd to be last swallowed,
the daintier sense
thee well: Welcome good Friends. Oh my olde Friend?
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
the false Steward that stole his masters daughter
their eyes purging thicke Amber, or Plum-Tree
their ill report while you liued
their repaire hither, and say you are not fit
the laying in) he will last you some eight yeare, or nine
them. For there be of them, that will themselues laugh,
them after your own Honor and Dignity. The lesse they
the most fond and winnowed opinions; and doe but blow
them shape, or time to acte them in. What should such
them to their tryalls: the Bubbles are out
then I haue thoughts to put them in imagination, to giue
then proofing the printed copy and correcting the type and then
then your Honestie?
then yours. You are welcome: but my Vnckle Father,
the onely men
there was no Sallets in the lines, to make the matter sauory;
the right breed. If it shall please you to make me a wholsome
the spelling errors introduced by the printers of the time have
the time, and outward habite of encounter, a kinde of
they aske you what it meanes, say you this:
they comming to offer you Seruice
they say, an old man is twice a childe
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
thing so ouer-done, is fro[m] the purpose of Playing, whose
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
this Line, let me see, let me see: The rugged Pyrrhus like
this Quintessence of Dust? Man delights not me; no,
this Sir?
this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
this and other first folio editions.  This is due to the printer's
thou?
thoughts
thought some of Natures Iouerney-men had made men,
though you can fret me, you cannot play vpon me. God
thousand Tenants
thou shalt not escape Calumny. Get thee to a Nunnery.
thy selfe-
till he find it stopping a bunghole
time a great buyer of Land, with his Statutes, his Recognizances,
time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
time when they were out of "v"'s. . .possibly having used "vv" in
'tis for the dead, not for the quicke, therefore thou
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
to Dido, and thereabout of it especially, where he speaks
to Yaughan, fetch me a stoupe of Liquor.
to come: if it bee not to come, it will bee now: if it
to fat vs, and we fat our selfe for Magots. Your fat King,
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
together a spelling dictionary devised from the spellings of the
together with weake Hammes. All which Sir, though I
to get involved with Project Gutenberg.  You could also
to haue his fine Pate full of fine Dirt? will his
to his Purgation, would perhaps plundge him into farre
to know it is.
to lament
to mee, then a foule and pestilent congregation of vapours.
too light, for the law of Writ, and the Liberty. These are
too narrow for your minde
too, though in the meane time, some necessary Question
to play at Loggets with 'em? mine ake to thinke
to say so
to see a robustious Pery-wig-pated Fellow, teare a Passion
to set on some quantitie of barren Spectators to laugh
to signifie this to his Doctor: for for me to put him
total should reach over 200 billion Etexts given away this year.
to tatters, to verie ragges, to split the eares of the
to thee; if thou answerest me not to the purpose, confesse
to't like French Faulconers, flie at any thing we see: wee'l
to unpack the cliches, and thus you will see some substitutions
to view http://promo.net/pg.  This site lists Etexts by
to you
to you, that he ha's laid a great wager on your head:
transforme Honestie from what is, to a Bawd, then the
'twas so indeed
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
variety of errors we credit him for, even though he was in/famous
very high place in the "canon" of Shakespeare.  My father read an
very substance of the Ambitious, is meerely the shadow
vnlesse the Poet and the Player went to Cuffes in
vnlimited. Seneca cannot be too heauy, nor Plautus
vp, and
vpon this Pipe?
vs, Sir
vs not: let the gall'd iade winch: our withers are vnrung.
wayes
wayes to a Nunnery. Where's your Father?
way of friendship, What make you at Elsonower?
were Caines Iaw-bone, that did the first murther: It
were sent for or no
what Lenton entertainment the Players shall receiue
when I was in the City? Are they so follow'd?
when he needes what you haue glean'd, it is but squeezing
which is only ~5% of the present number of computer users.
which your modesties haue not craft enough to color,
while my Father liued; giue twenty, forty, an hundred
wife: man & wife is one flesh, and so my mother. Come,
will
wilfully seekes her owne saluation?
will more willingly part withall, except my life, my
will needs be pittied
with a difference. There's a Daysie, I would giue you
with as much modestie, as cunning. I remember one said,
with her. The dead body is carried away: The Poysoner Wooes the
within the ring. Masters, you are all welcome: wee'l e'ne
with modestie enough, & likeliehood to lead it; as thus.
without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
with the body. The King, is a thing-
with your finger and thumbe, giue it breath with your
wits there; or if he do not, it's no great matter there
wittingly
words are not mine
works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
world, the Parragon of Animals; and yet to me, what is
worst
would driue me into a toyle?
yeare. A Tanner will last you nine yeare
yesty collection, which carries them through & through
yet he knew me not at first; he said I was a Fishmonger:
you, and Spundge you shall be dry againe
you and him, hee shall not exceed you three hits;
you are ask't this question next, say a Graue-maker: the
you are welcome to Elsonower?
you asham'd to shew, hee'l not shame to tell you what it
you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
you can delete everything within the brackets if you want a
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
you gidge, you amble, and you lispe, and nickname
you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
you make it. Why do you thinke, that I am easier to bee
you make of me: you would play vpon mee; you would
you my good friends, deserued at the hands of Fortune,
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
your Bonet to his right vse, 'tis for the head
     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
your death, you were better haue a bad Epitaph, then
your hand thus, but vse all gently; for in the verie Torrent,
your owne inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
your selfe
your selfe
your voice like a peece of vncurrant Gold be not crack'd
you withall; be euen and direct with me, whether you


















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































***
***
***
******
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
slow of Saile, we put on a compelled Valour. In the Grapple, I
   Ham. A whole one I,
together with weake Hammes. All which Sir, though I
Be buried quicke with her, and so will I.
Oh what a Rogue and Pesant slaue am I?
Falne on the Inuentors head. All this can I
  Hor. That can I,
  Ham. Who I?
You will find a lot of these kinds of "errors" in this text, as I
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
   Ham. You cannot Sir take from me any thing, that I
The very faculty of Eyes and Eares. Yet I,
   Hor. Infaith my Lord, not I
neuer Acted: or if it was, not aboue once, for the Play I
Champaign, IL 61825
WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
     *EITHER*:
THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
          OR
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
          indicate hypertext links; OR
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
GET GUTINDEX.??  [to get a year's listing of books, e.g., GUTINDEX.99]
INDEMNITY
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
sleepes. Say on; come to Hecuba
For Hecuba?
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
Scena Secunda.
Scena Secunda.
   Clo. A pestilence on him for a mad Rogue, a pour'd a
That beetles o're his base into the Sea,
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's hope, a
that Shakespeare most likely did not write in nearly as many of a
haue no more? ha?
   Ham. Oh wonderfull Sonne, that can so astonish a
To the Celestiall, and my Soules Idoll, the most beautifed Ophelia.
Enter Laertes and Ophelia.
  Ham. What, the faire Ophelia?
In hugger mugger to interre him. Poore Ophelia
   Laer. Too much of water hast thou poore Ophelia,
Enter Ophelia.
Enter Ophelia.
Deere Maid, kinde Sister, sweet Ophelia:
Exeunt. Ophelia
  Qu. Nay but Ophelia
Then may be giuen you. In few, Ophelia,
Sprung from neglected loue. How now Ophelia?
   Qu. How now Ophelia?
   King. Pretty Ophelia
Scena Tertia
   Ham. It was a bruite part of him, to kill so Capitall a
extreme attachment to these errors, and many have accorded them a
Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.
   Ham. I am glad of it: a knauish speech sleepes in a
Helpe, helpe, hoa
   Osr. Looke to the Queene there hoa
   Ham. Wee'l ha't to morrow night. You could for a
  Other. The Gallowes maker; for that Frame outliues a
   Ham. Let her not walke i'thSunne: Conception is a
all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless a
The answer is that they MAY have packed "liue" into a cliche at a
   Ham. Am I not i'th' right old Iephta?
you can delete everything within the brackets if you want a
And fall a Cursing like a very Drab.
To sleepe, perchance to Dreame; I, there's the rub,
head
  King. Dead
A second time, I kill my Husband dead,
Now pile your dust, vpon the quicke, and dead,
We should prophane the seruice of the dead,
That Rosincrance and Guildensterne are dead:
   Ham. How now, a Rat? dead for a Ducate, dead
But let it be: Horatio, I am dead,
shee's dead
But die thy thoughts, when thy first Lord is dead
   Barn. In the same figure, like the King that's dead
Fall ten times trebble, on that cursed head
The Sourse of this our Watch, and the cheefe head
your Bonet to his right vse, 'tis for the head
Which was declining on the Milkie head
To o're top old Pelion, or the skyish head
to you, that he ha's laid a great wager on your head:
Then young Laertes, in a Riotous head,
With Bisson Rheume: A clout about that head,
With all my imperfections on my head;
He tooke my Father grossely, full of bread,
And at our more consider'd time wee'l read,
But looke, the Morne in Russet mantle clad,
   Ham. How came he mad?
Go too, Ile no more on't, it hath made me mad.
   Pol. That hath made him mad.
  Qu. Alas he's mad
I will be breefe. Your Noble Sonne is mad:
What is't, but to be nothing else but mad.
And then (they say) no Spirit can walke abroad,
And therefore must his choyce be circumscrib'd
Lord Hamlet with his doublet all vnbrac'd,
  Ham. Speake the Speech I pray you, as I pronounc'd
'Gainst Fortunes State, would Treason haue pronounc'd?
When second Husband kisses me in Bed
You promis'd me to Wed:
In the ranke sweat of an enseamed bed,
No, no, he is dead, go to thy Death-bed,
Let the blunt King tempt you againe to bed,
ere you go to bed
Ile call vpon you ere you go to bed,
Good night, but go not to mine Vnkles bed,
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed,
And thou hadst not come to my bed
To be commanded
spellings according to this template), typo's and expanded
  Qu. Hamlet, thou hast thy Father much offended
   Ham. Mother, you haue my Father much offended
   Mar. It is offended
  Pol. This businesse is very well ended.
   Guil. Nor do we finde him forward to be sounded,
David Reed
But wilt thou heare me how I did proceed?
As false as Dicers Oathes. Oh such a deed,
But we will ship him hence, and this vilde deed,
   Ham. Indeed, vpon my sword, Indeed
   Osr. It is indifferent cold my Lord indeed
A Combination, and a forme indeed,
To show your selfe your Fathers sonne indeed,
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed,
   Laer. I know him well, he is the Brooch indeed,
   Polon. By'th' Masse, and it's like a Camell indeed
'twas so indeed
   Qu. So he ha's indeed
That he cryed out, t'would be a sight indeed,
   King. Oh heauy deed:
Could you on this faire Mountaine leaue to feed,
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
Haue I of Ladies most deiect and wretched,
Of his owne iust remoue: the people muddied,
Geneva Bible and Shakespeare's First Folio and have unified
To the vnsatisfied
Is death of Fathers, and who still hath cried,
beene a Gentlewoman, shee should haue beene buried
will needs be pittied
Whose Blood and Iudgement are so well co-mingled,
that old men haue gray Beards; that their faces are wrinkled;
Be all my sinnes remembred
Since yet thy Cicatrice lookes raw and red
  Hor. While one with moderate hast might tell a hundred
while my Father liued; giue twenty, forty, an hundred
That I, the Sonne of the Deere murthered,
Alas, how shall this bloody deede be answered?
   Ham. Pale, or red?
That on the superuize no leasure bated,
Wherein our Sauiours Birch is celebrated,
Enter Ophelia distracted.
   Rosin. He does confesse he feeles himselfe distracted,
With Hecats Ban, thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thou mixture ranke, of Midnight Weeds collected,
  Ophe. Alas my Lord, I haue beene so affrighted
  Rosin. Nay, their indeauour keepes in the wonted
Which now goes too free-footed
Lome, and why of that Lome (whereto he was conuerted)
sites are available on 7 continents; mirrors are listed
When th' Ambitious Norwey combatted:
fitted
The memory be greene: and that it vs befitted
And gather by him, as he is behaued,
Or like a creature Natiue, and indued
By desperate appliance are releeued,
It was against your Highnesse, whereat greeued,
   Ophe. I was the more deceiued
My Father in his habite, as he liued,
their ill report while you liued
To those of mine. But Vertue, as it neuer wil be moued,
So thinke thou wilt no second Husband wed.
Not shriuing time allowed
the corner of his iaw, first mouth'd to be last swallowed,
Which may to you (perhaps) seeme much vnsinnowed,
  Ham. Safely stowed
some Violets, but they wither'd all when my Father dyed:
She should in ground vnsanctified haue lodg'd,
the Scripture? the Scripture sayes Adam dig'd;
Let come what comes: onely Ile be reueng'd
'Tis heauie with him: and am I then reueng'd,
Hamlet is of the Faction that is wrong'd,
  Priest. Her Obsequies haue bin as farre inlarg'd.
And where 'tis so, th' Offenders scourge is weigh'd
I thought thy Bride-bed to haue deckt (sweet Maid)
with as much modestie, as cunning. I remember one said,
   Polon. Marry, well said;
And as you said, and wisely was it said,
Are burnt and purg'd away? But that I am forbid
  Hor. My Lord, I did;
Come short of what he did
   Ophe. My honor'd Lord, I know right well you did,
  Ham. Doe they hold the same estimation they did
In dreadfull secrecie impart they did,
your voice like a peece of vncurrant Gold be not crack'd
Now is he to take Geulles, horridly Trick'd
   Ham. Oh Villany! How? Let the doore be lock'd.
So Lust, though to a radiant Angell link'd,
And you my sinnewes, grow not instant Old;
   Hor. How was this seal'd?
Vnhouzzled, disappointed, vnnaneld,
  Qu. To draw apart the body he hath kild,
Within his Truncheons length; whilst they bestil'd
Enter Ros. & Guild.
In his true Nature, and we our selues compell'd
To tell him his command'ment is fulfill'd,
To mine owne roome againe, making so bold,
   Fran. For this releefe much thankes: 'Tis bitter cold,
  Ham. The Ayre bites shrewdly: is it very cold?
A little Month, or ere those shooes were old,
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
To what I shall vnfold
many pocky Coarses now adaies, that will scarce hold
Should haue a backe or second, that might hold,
An Vnderstanding simple, and vnschool'd:
I do not know from what part of the world
  Laer. My Will, not all the world,
And let me speake to th' yet vnknowing world,
i'th' world
Seemes to me all the vses of this world?
In the corrupted currants of this world,
nothing, but inexplicable dumbe shewes, & noise: I could
in this more then Naturall, if Philosophie could
selfe Sir, should be old as I am, if like a Crab you could
No hat vpon his head, his stockings foul'd,
   Ham. Oh God, your onely Iigge-maker: what should
but I cannot choose but weepe, to thinke they should
matter: If we could carry Cannon by our sides; I would
As well, we know, or we could and if we would,
That Treason can but peepe to what it would,
you make of me: you would play vpon mee; you would
   Hora. You might haue Rim'd
That from her working, all his visage warm'd;
But let this same be presently perform'd,
and
So nightly toyles the subiect of the Land,
And hath shipped me intill the Land,
Of this post-hast, and Romage in the Land.
Feature, Scorne her owne Image, and the verie Age and
     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
Guildensterne, and
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
preuent your discouery of your secricie to the King and
And both neglect; what if this cursed hand
  Laer. Know you the hand?
The Coarse they follow, did with disperate hand,
But to recouer of vs by strong hand
If by direct or by Colaterall hand
   Ham. Hold off your hand
   Ham. No by this hand
Thus was I, sleeping, by a Brothers hand,
The Treacherous Instrument is in thy hand,
Which let thy wisenesse feare. Away thy hand
   Hor. It must be shortly knowne to him from England
I cannot liue to heare the Newes from England,
You from the Polake warres, and you from England
Thus set it downe. He shall with speed to England
that was mad, and sent into England
   Ham. I marry, why was he sent into England?
for England.
For England
   Ham. For England?
The present death of Hamlet. Do it England,
   Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell, and
  Osr. Yong Fortinbras, with conquest come fro[m] Poland
You good Cornelius, and you Voltemand,
Put your dread pleasures, more into Command
  Ophe. No my good Lord: but as you did command,
But sir, such answers as I can make, you shal command:
An eye like Mars, to threaten or command
Oh royall knauery: An exact command,
   Hamlet. My Mother: Father and Mother is man and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
Yases, that crye out on the top of question; and
Guildenstern, and
   Barn. Well, goodnight. If you do meet Horatio and
vp, and
   Pol. Looke where he ha's not turn'd his colour, and
Begin Murderer. Pox, leaue thy damnable Faces, and
habit of setting the type and running off a number of copies and
Crowne, kisses it, and powres poyson in the Kings eares, and
Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
one man pick'd out of two thousand
I dare Damnation: to this point I stand,
Coniure the wandring Starres, and makes them stand
   Clo. What, ar't a Heathen? how doth thou vnderstand
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
   Rosin. Truely, and I hold Ambition of so ayry and
They say, he made a good end;
Gifts, she seemes loath and vnwilling awhile, but in the end,
As make your bowts more violent to the end,
but to one Table that's the end
No more; and by a sleepe, to say we end
thee well: Welcome good Friends. Oh my olde Friend?
blessing, but not as your daughter may conceiue. Friend
And you must put me in your heart for Friend,
if you deny your greefes to your Friend
For lone oft loses both it selfe and friend:
   Ham. Sir my good friend,
And each particular haire to stand an end,
Thus it remaines, and the remainder thus. Perpend,
as print was still quite expensive, and they didn't want to spend
For who not needs, shall neuer lacke a Frend:
I his foule Sonne, do this same Villaine send
And hitherto doth Loue on Fortune tend,
  Qu. Mad as the Seas, and winde, when both contend
   Polon. The time inuites you, goe, your seruants tend
  King. Loue? His affections do not that way tend,
To quit him with this arme? And is't not to be damn'd
Be thou a Spirit of health, or Goblin damn'd,
And so am I reueng'd: that would be scann'd,
I am poyson'd
Neuer to rise againe: Thy Mothers poyson'd:
Wherein we saw thee quietly enurn'd,
Was gaged by our King: which had return'd
   Kin. To thine owne peace: if he be now return'd,
Are ioyfully return'd
And with his head ouer his shoulders turn'd,
March. Sound
And like a man to double businesse bound,
That Father lost, lost his, and the Suruiuer bound
And peculiar life is bound
As I haue vs'd to do: that I haue found
He tels me my sweet Queene, that he hath found
He rais'd a sigh, so pittious and profound,
But better look'd into, he truly found
   Laer. Vpon my life Lamound
Neptunes salt Wash, and Tellus Orbed ground:
It wafts you to a more remoued ground:
Millions of Akers on vs; till our ground
  Hor. Friends to this ground
   Ham. Vpon what ground?
  King. Full thirtie times hath Phoebus Cart gon round,
Marke you your party in conuerse; him you would sound,
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd
   Laer. Alas then, is she drown'd?
   Ham. Hic & vbique? Then wee'l shift for grownd,
His Cannon 'gainst Selfe-slaughter. O God, O God!
though you can fret me, you cannot play vpon me. God
I saw you last, by the altitude of a Choppine. Pray God
And of all Christian Soules, I pray God.
   Ham. Good
  Polon. That I did my Lord, and was accounted a good
Forme of the thing; each word made true and good,
No Medicine in the world can do thee good.
Yea courb, and woe, for leaue to do him good
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
   Clown. Giue me leaue; heere lies the water; good:
  Pol. That's good: Inobled Queene is good
Would harrow vp thy soule, freeze thy young blood,
Will want true colour; teares perchance for blood
Were thicker then it selfe with Brothers blood,
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood,
Repast them with my blood
O're which his Melancholly sits on brood,
So as a painted Tyrant Pyrrhus stood,
   Ham. Wormwood, Wormwood
Who this had seene, with tongue in Venome steep'd,
Vpon a fearfull Summons. I haue heard,
Neuer to speake of this that you haue heard:
Our hastie sending. Something haue you heard
Hath now this dread and blacke Complexion smear'd
His Nephewes Leuies, which to him appear'd
Where in necessitie of matter Beggard,
It's giuen out, that sleeping in mine Orchard,
Briefe let me be: Sleeping within mine Orchard,
  Ophe. He tooke me by the wrist, and held me hard;
Proclaimes me Bastard:
   Barn. Haue you had quiet Guard?
go backward
A damn'd defeate was made. Am I a Coward?
  Guild. Is in his retyrement, maruellous distemper'd
To feed & cloath thee. Why shold the poor be flatter'd?
A Sable Siluer'd
   Ham. Come for the third.
At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-third
   Mar. My good Lord
  Osricke. I my good Lord
  Hor. No my good Lord
   Reynol. But my good Lord
  Pol. Th' Ambassadors from Norwey, my good Lord,
   Guild. Mine honour'd Lord?
   Mar. How ist my Noble Lord?
Ile blessing begge of you. For this same Lord,
  Rosin. My most deare Lord?
   Hora. O my deere Lord
   Guil. In what my deere Lord?
Ore-beares your Officers, the rabble call him Lord,
  Ophe. My Lord
  Ophe. I my Lord
  Ophe. I my Lord
  Hor. I, my Lord
   Mar. Nor I, my Lord
   Pol. Not I my Lord
  Play. I my Lord
  Play. I my Lord
  Laer. Dread my Lord,
speake to him againe. What do you read my Lord?
  Both. Arm'd, my Lord
   Rosin. To what end my Lord?
   Ophe. Good my Lord,
   Reynol. Good my Lord
  Rosin. Good my Lord.
  Hor. I, good my Lord
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my Lord
   Hor. Nay, good my Lord
   Reynol. Very good my Lord
   Hor. & Mar. within. My Lord, my Lord.
   Hor. What if it tempt you toward the Floud my Lord?
  Rosin. Where the dead body is bestow'd my Lord,
   Hor. There's no offence my Lord
  Ophe. 'Tis briefe my Lord
  Mes. Saue your selfe, my Lord.
   Rosin. Take you me for a Spundge, my Lord?
  Pol. What a Treasure had he, my Lord?
   Ophe. You are merrie, my Lord?
   Hor. The same my Lord,
  Ophe. At home, my Lord
   Pol. Do you know me, my Lord?
What does this meane my Lord?
  Pol. I meane the matter you meane, my Lord
  Both. We doe my Lord
   Mar. You shall not goe my Lord
   King. Thankes deere my Lord.
   Qu. Alas, looke heere my Lord
There my Lord
   Hor. Oh where my Lord?
  Hor. Not a iot more, my Lord
Out of the ayre my Lord?
   Laer. Most humbly doe I take my leaue, my Lord
  Pol. I haue my Lord
The woman will be out: Adue my Lord,
   Pol. That's very true, my Lord
  Guild. A thing my Lord?
  Ophe. I thinke nothing, my Lord
   Reynol. As gaming my Lord
   1.Play. What speech, my Lord?
   Hor. Propose the Oath my Lord
  Pol. He hath my Lord:
   Reynol. I shall my Lord
   Rosin. We shall my Lord.
   Hora. Well my Lord.
   Reynol. Well, my Lord.
  Hora. Verie well my Lord
   Ham. Verie well my Lord,
   Polon. Fare you well my Lord
  Reynol. I, very well my Lord
   Reynol. I will my Lord
   Qu. I will my Lord;
  Both. We will my Lord.
   Polon. What followes then, my Lord?
   Rosin. Hoa, Guildensterne? Bring in my Lord.
  Guil. Prison, my Lord?
  Both. I, by Heau'n, my Lord
  Ophe. No my Lord
   Hor. Illo, ho, ho, my Lord
   Hor. E'ene so, my Lord
   Rosin. We thinke not so my Lord
   Hor. You will lose this wager, my Lord
  Rosin. Neither my Lord
  Pol. The Actors are come hither my Lord
   Pol. What is the matter, my Lord?
   Hor. These are but wild and hurling words, my Lord
   Qu. How fares my Lord?
  Hor. What newes, my Lord?
   Ophe. Nay, 'tis twice two moneths, my Lord
   Ham. Yes, by Saint Patricke, but there is my Lord,
   Laer. Why out of this, my Lord?
  Ophe. What meanes this, my Lord?
  Ophe. What is my Lord?
   Ophe. You are a good Chorus, my Lord
   Guild. What, my Lord?
   Hor. What's that my Lord?
  Hor. It might, my Lord
   Guild. I know no touch of it, my Lord
   Hor. Remember it my Lord?
   Hor. Doe not my Lord
   Rosin. I vnderstand you not my Lord
   Cap. I will doo't, my Lord
   Pol. Honest, my Lord?
   Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is't my Lord?
  Pol. I heare him comming, let's withdraw my Lord.
How now my Lord,
   Guil. What should we say my Lord?
   Ophe. I shall obey my Lord.
Discretion be your Tutor. Sute the Action to the Word,
Tempt him with speed aboord:
Striking too short at Greekes. His anticke Sword,
But with the whiffe and winde of his fell Sword,
Takes Prisoner Pyrrhus eare. For loe, his Sword
And for that purpose Ile annoint my Sword:
Sweare by my Sword
Then is my deede, to my most painted word.
   Ham. Oh but shee'l keepe her word
The Courtiers, Soldiers, Schollers: Eye, tongue, sword,
With lesse remorse then Pyrrhus bleeding sword
   Ham. Vpon my sword
And lay your hands againe vpon my sword,
Sweare by my sword
I could a Tale vnfold, whose lightest word
So Vnckle there you are: now to my word;
  Ham. I Lady, 'twas my word.
The Ratifiers and props of euery word,
Taken to Wife; nor haue we heerein barr'd
The youth you breath of guilty, be assur'd
As had he beene encorps't and demy-Natur'd
  Ham. Make you a wholsome answere: my wits diseas'd.
  King. Part them, they are incens'd
Too oft before the buttons be disclos'd,
When that her Golden Cuplet are disclos'd;
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd,
and Aunt Mother are deceiu'd
  Laer. He is iustly seru'd.
when I was in the City? Are they so follow'd?
But euen then, the Morning Cocke crew lowd;
soone. Good my Lord, will you see the Players wel bestow'd.
  Bar. He
Arm'd at all points exactly, Cap a Pe,
Be soft as sinewes of the new-borne Babe,
Would from a Paddocke, from a Bat, a Gibbe,
Let not the Royall Bed of Denmarke be
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.
Or giuen my heart a winking, mute and dumbe,
Where late the Diadem stood, and for a Robe
and Ceremony. Let me comply with you in the Garbe,
Neither a borrower, nor a lender be;
A Ministring Angell shall my Sister be,
   Queen. If it be;
Vnto that Element: but long it could not be,
Ha? Why I should take it: for it cannot be,
But this eternall blason must not be
He smot the sledded Pollax on the Ice.
For I mine eyes will riuet to his Face:
  Laer. If so you'l not o'rerule me to a peace
I haue a voyce, and president of peace
   Ham. Then saw you not his face?
   Qu. Come, let me wipe thy face
He fals to such perusall of my face,
Pluckes off my Beard, and blowes it in my face?
As they fell out by Time, by Meanes, and Place,
Get you a place
It will but skin and filme the Vlcerous place,
Would gamboll from. Mother, for loue of Grace,
A double blessing is a double grace;
But euen his Mother shall vncharge the practice,
A Sword vnbaited, and in a passe of practice,
Offences gilded hand may shoue by Iustice,
Which done, she tooke the Fruites of my Aduice,
So by my former Lecture and aduice
Breake we our Watch vp, and by my aduice
To an exployt now ripe in my Deuice,
  Hora. Heere sweet Lord, at your Seruice
they comming to offer you Seruice
Oh Vengeance!
There falling out at Tennis; or perchance,
You that looke pale, and tremble at this chance,
Lest more mischance
And that our drift looke through our bad performance,
Her Brother is in secret come from France,
Your leaue and fauour to returne to France,
   Ham. I doe not thinke so, since he went into France,
My thoughts and wishes bend againe towards France,
As fits a Kings remembrance
   Laer. A document in madnesse, thoughts & remembrance
Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
   Qu. Thankes Guildensterne and gentle Rosincrance.
These good Fellowes will bring thee where I am. Rosincrance
   Guild. But these cannot I command to any vtterance
Gods creatures, and make your Wantonnesse, your Ignorance.
   Ham. Ile be your foile Laertes, in mine ignorance,
   Ham. They are Sheepe and Calues that seek out assurance
One Scoene of it comes neere the Circumstance
You doe remember all the Circumstance
Vnsifted in such perillous Circumstance.
  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
More honour'd in the breach, then the obseruance.
the Word to the Action, with this speciall obseruance:
We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
On such regards of safety and allowance,
   Ham. How chances it they trauaile? their residence
It will be laide to vs, whose prouidence
her owne defence?
For Art and exercise in your defence;
But to confront the visage of Offence?
   King. Haue you heard the Argument, is there no Offence
  Ham. No, no, they do but iest, poyson in iest, no Offence
May one be pardon'd, and retaine th' offence?
That both the worlds I giue to negligence,
For that which thou hast done, must send thee hence
And call it accident: Some two Monthes hence
   Rosin. Tell vs where 'tis, that we may take it thence,
How smart a lash that speech doth giue my Conscience?
And with such coozenage; is't not perfect conscience,
   Laer. And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience
And call the Noblest to the Audience.
Sir, in this Audience,
  Rosin. I my Lord, they stay vpon your patience
Wee'l put on those shall praise your excellence,
To offer it the shew of Violence,
Nor shall you doe mine eare that violence,
I pray you passe with your best violence,
Be somewhat scanter of your Maiden presence;
As any the most vulgar thing to sence,
Whose wicked deed, thy most Ingenious sence
That so his Sicknesse, Age, and Impotence
  Reynol. At closes in the consequence:
Each small annexment, pettie consequence
He closes with you in this consequence:
**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**
Goodnight sweet Prince,
   Ham. How long is that since?
   Ham. No, nor mine. Now my Lord, you plaid once
To pricke and sting her. Fare thee well at once;
proofe. I did loue you once
   Ophe. There's Rosemary, that's for Remembraunce.
   Ham. I am tame Sir, pronounce
It shall as leuell to your Iudgement pierce
   Ophe. Could Beautie my Lord, haue better Comerce
And what's in Prayer, but this two-fold force,
As he in his peculiar Sect and force
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
If thou hast any sound, or vse of Voyce,
name's Gonzago: the Story is extant and writ in choyce
On Fortinbras, he ha's my dying voyce,
Giue euery man thine eare; but few thy voyce:
And reaks not his owne reade
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
The instant Burst of Clamour that she made
Till of this flat a Mountaine you haue made,
The Lists, and full proportions are all made
   Clowne sings. A Pickhaxe and a Spade, a Spade,
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeede
Sticke fiery off indeede
To keepe it from divulging, let's it feede
  King. She sounds to see them bleede
And duller should'st thou be then the fat weede
You neede not tell vs, what Lord Hamlet saide,
   Ham. Do you not come your tardy Sonne to chide,
(Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate Pride)
The friends thou hast, and their adoption tride,
Your Grace hath laide the oddes a'th' weaker side
   Guild. We will our selues prouide:
Fell in the weeping Brooke, her cloathes spred wide,
Pyrrhus at Priam driues, in Rage strikes wide:
they say, an old man is twice a childe
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
That's an ill Phrase, a vilde Phrase, beautified is a vilde
Euen whiles mens mindes are wilde,
But if't be hee I meane, hees very wilde;
Too slightly timbred for so loud a Winde,
If Circumstances leade me, I will finde
And thou shalt liue in this faire world behinde,
Thus bad begins and worse remaines behinde
I must be cruell, onely to be kinde;
  Ham. A little more then kin, and lesse then kinde
Rich gifts wax poore, when giuers proue vnkinde.
Honour'd, belou'd, and haply, one as kinde.
That thus hath cousend you at hoodman-blinde?
With all the strength and Armour of the minde,
Take these againe, for to the Noble minde
are tickled a'th' sere: and the Lady shall say her minde
too narrow for your minde
The flash and out-breake of a fiery minde,
   Hor. She is importunate, indeed distract, her moode
Hold it a fashion and a toy in Bloude;
All from her Fathers death. Oh Gertrude, Gertrude,
Why thou art thus Incenst? Let him go Gertrude.
  Kin. Let's follow, Gertrude:
Hee's loued of the distracted multitude,
Friends both go ioyne you with some further ayde:
I did repell his Letters, and deny'de
Giues him three thousand Crownes in Annuall Fee,
Resembles that it was. What it should bee
you make it. Why do you thinke, that I am easier to bee
  Ham. I sir, to be honest as this world goes, is to bee
But fall vnshaken, when they mellow bee.
I doe not set my life at a pins fee;
It was the very day, that young Hamlet was borne, hee
   Ham. He did Complie with his Dugge before hee
say on: He's for a Iigge, or a tale of Baudry, or hee
flye death. I haue words to speake in your eare, will make thee
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Why seemes it so particular with thee
For what aduancement may I hope from thee,
Farewell: my Blessing season this in thee
Mine and my Fathers death come not vpon thee,
In this distracted Globe: Remember thee?
But beare me stiffely vp: Remember thee?
Houses that he makes, lasts till Doomesday: go, get thee
  Ham. Heauen make thee free of it, I follow thee.
  Ham. It wafts me still: goe on, Ile follow thee
I say away, goe on, Ile follow thee.
   Ham. It shall to'th Barbars, with your beard. Prythee
fauour she must come. Make her laugh at that: prythee
And crooke the pregnant Hindges of the knee,
Which now like Fruite vnripe stickes on the Tree,
their eyes purging thicke Amber, or Plum-Tree
Oh limed soule, that strugling to be free,
Make mad the guilty, and apale the free,
against sixe French Swords: their Assignes, and three
For by the image of my Cause, I see
  Qu. Nothing at all, yet all that is I see
T'haue seene what I haue seene: see what I see.
  Hor. What is it ye would see;
If this should blast in proofe: Soft, let me see
An houre of quiet shortly shall we see;
is the Dukes name, his wife Baptista: you shall see
Y'are welcome Masters, welcome all. I am glad to see
To keepe those many many bodies safe
Mischeefe
  King. Laertes, I must common with your greefe,
The Origin and Commencement of this greefe
Of impious stubbornnesse. 'Tis vnmanly greefe,
Together with all Formes, Moods, shewes of Griefe,
Or to the dreadfull Sonnet of the Cliffe,
If it be made of penetrable stuffe;
life
If once a Widdow, euer I be Wife
guilty of his owne death, shortens not his owne life
Vpon whose property, and most deere life,
In thee, there is not halfe an houre of life;
That makes Calamity of so long life:
Throwne out his Angle for my proper life,
   Hor. It was, as I haue seene it in his life,
Should be as mortall as an old mans life?
The Serpent that did sting thy Fathers life,
Or, if thou hast vp-hoorded in thy life
Pursued my life
With hoo, such Bugges and Goblins in my life,
Vnto yong Hamlet. For vpon my life,
To grunt and sweat vnder a weary life,
Both heere, and hence, pursue me lasting strife,
loue of Gonzago's wife
You are the Queene, your Husbands Brothers wife,
I hop'd thou should'st haue bin my Hamlets wife:
And liue the purer with the other halfe.
I lou'd your Father, and we loue our Selfe,
This Realme dismantled was of Ioue himselfe,
Hyperions curles, the front of Ioue himselfe,
So much from th' vnderstanding of himselfe,
The diuell himselfe
hardly lye in this Boxe; and must the Inheritor himselfe
It is a poyson temp'red by himselfe:
When downe the weedy Trophies, and her selfe,
Act to doe and to performe; argall she drown'd her selfe
your selfe
your selfe
   Polon. Obserue his inclination in your selfe
Giuen priuate time to you; and you your selfe
And oft 'tis seene, the wicked prize it selfe
It sends some precious instance of it selfe
   Laer. Thought, and Affliction, Passion, Hell it selfe:
Being a thing immortall as it selfe:
Whose violent property foredoes it selfe,
thy selfe-
Woo't weepe? Woo't fight? Woo't teare thy selfe?
With fierie Quicknesse. Therefore prepare thy selfe,
  Hor. As thou art to thy selfe,
Where now it burnes, Marcellus and my selfe,
How strange or odde so ere I beare my selfe;
Must render vp my selfe
Liues almost by his lookes: and for my selfe,
Horatio, or I do forget my selfe
That to Laertes I forgot my selfe;
Behinde the Arras Ile conuey my selfe
look you, this braue ore-hanging, this Maiesticall Roofe,
But with a crafty Madnesse keepes aloofe:
And that I see in passages of proofe,
That rots it selfe in ease, on Lethe Wharfe,
Stood Challenger on mount of all the Age
It seemes it is as proper to our Age,
When he is drunke asleepe: or in his Rage,
Will sate it selfe in a Celestiall bed, & prey on Garbage.
With mirth in Funerall, and with Dirge in Marriage,
His Fathers death, and our o're-hasty Marriage.
Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)
How much I had to doe to calme his rage?
You cannot call it Loue: For at your age,
Nor the deiected hauiour of the Visage,
'Tis too much prou'd, that with Deuotions visage,
And for his passage,
He hath not fayl'd to pester vs with Message,
Beare Hamlet like a Soldier to the Stage,
Ghost cries vnder the Stage.
Colleagued with the dreame of his Aduantage;
   King. Arme you, I pray you to this speedie Voyage;
edge
The triumph of his Pledge
Come one you here this fellow in the selleredge
And to those Thornes that in her bosome lodge,
We may of their encounter frankely iudge,
boudge:
   Pol. Haue I, my Lord? Assure you, my good Liege,
The speech of vantage. Fare you well my Liege,
That he could nothing doe but wish and begge,
Vertue it selfe, of Vice must pardon begge,
   Ham. For if the Sun breed Magots in a dead dogge,
That euen our Loues should with our Fortunes change.
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
'Tis strange
   Hor. Oh day and night: but this is wondrous strange
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
   Ham. Tis very strange
   Laer. Had'st thou thy wits, and did'st perswade Reuenge,
begin. Come, the croaking Rauen doth bellow for Reuenge
To heauen. Oh this is hyre and Sallery, not Reuenge.
May sweepe to my Reuenge
Of your deere Fathers death, if writ in your reuenge,
and by what more deare, a better proposer could charge
   Polon. Faith no, as you may season it in the charge;
When the compulsiue Ardure giues the charge,
And many such like Assis of great charge,
But what in faith make you from Wittemberge?
him. She
laugh, cannot but make the Iudicious greeue; The
We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
Action. The
Exits. The
   Polon. What said he?
mad as he
   King. But where is he?
Like Niobe, all teares. Why she, euen she.
the Foyles bee brought, the Gentleman willing, and the
The elongated S's have been changed to small s's and the
   Ham. There's another: why might not that bee the
imediate tryall, if your Lordship would vouchsafe the
   Ophe. You are naught, you are naught, Ile marke the
nor no matter in the phrase, that might indite the
   Ham. I will Prophesie. Hee comes to tell me of the
came to passe, as most like it was: The first rowe of the
[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
to tatters, to verie ragges, to split the eares of the
together a spelling dictionary devised from the spellings of the
   Ophe. Belike this shew imports the Argument of the
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
in apprehension, how like a God? the beauty of the
   Ham. No such matter. I will not sort you with the
   Hor. There needs no Ghost my Lord, come from the
transforme Honestie from what is, to a Bawd, then the
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
  Ham. I am but mad North, North-West: when the
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
remember pleas'd not the Million, 'twas Cauiarie to the
punctuation, capitalization as close as possible to the
   Ham. The phrase would bee more Germaine to the
   Clo. What is he that builds stronger then either the
you are ask't this question next, say a Graue-maker: the
in England for several months in a glass room constructed for the
   Guil. Which dreames indeed are Ambition: for the
with her. The dead body is carried away: The Poysoner Wooes the
or letters they had often packed into a "cliche". . .this is the
Italian. You shall see anon how the Murtherer gets the
I haue beene in continuall practice; I shall winne at the
are most tyrannically clap't for't: these are now the
Dost thou heare me old Friend, can you play the
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
by the Carde, or equiuocation will vndoe vs: by the
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
A Slaue, that is not twentieth part the tythe
a fellow of infinite Iest; of most excellent fancy, he
The very cause of Hamlets Lunacie
No in despight of Sense and Secrecie,
That you bend your eye on vacancie,
Heere stooping to your Clemencie:
That hee is open to Incontinencie;
it. Go make you readie.
here is the Project Gutenberg Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie
  Polon. The best Actors in the world, either for Tragedie,
For vs, and for our Tragedie,
That open'd lies within our remedie
For if the King like not the Comedie,
  King. I haue sent to seeke him, and to find the bodie:
Why then belike he likes it not perdie.
But not exprest in fancie; rich, not gawdie:
I cannot tell how: but my Lord, his Maiesty bad me signifie
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law.  (CMU = Carnegie-
   Ham. I humbly thank you Sir, dost know this waterflie?
We begge your hearing Patientlie
Directly seasons him his Enemie.
Enter Fortinbras with an Armie.
Roses on my rac'd Shooes, get me a Fellowship in a crie
Well ratified by Law, and Heraldrie,
I am iustly kill'd with mine owne Treacherie
Purpose is but the slaue to Memorie,
To tell my Storie.
That does afflict our Natures. I am sorrie,
A Station, like the Herald Mercurie
Is not this something more then Fantasie?
   Mar. Horatio saies, 'tis but our Fantasie,
   Ham. Extasie?
and the Nation holds it no sinne, to tarre them to Controuersie.
And meant to wracke thee: but beshrew my iealousie:
Then to Entreatie
Of violent Birth, but poore validitie:
For womens Feare and Loue, holds quantitie,
If you desire to know the certaintie
You do freely barre the doore of your owne Libertie,
Thy naturall Magicke, and dire propertie,
That blurres the grace and blush of Modestie,
The liues of many, the cease of Maiestie
That liue and feede vpon your Maiestie
To giue th' assay of Armes against your Maiestie.
then your Honestie?
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'Tis true 'tis pittie,
should admit no discourse to your Beautie
A dull and muddy-metled Rascall, peake
It selfe to motion, like as it would speake:
And (my yong Mistris) thus I did bespeake
   Hor. Stay: speake; speake: I Charge thee, speake.
Did sometimes march: By Heauen I charge thee speake
(Which happily foreknowing may auoyd) Oh speake.
For Murther, though it haue no tongue, will speake
   Qu. Nay, then Ile set those to you that can speake
  Hor. Of that I shall haue alwayes cause to speake,
But from what cause he will by no meanes speake
And let the Kettle to the Trumpets speake,
   Ham. How absolute the knaue is? wee must speake
   King. Why now you speake
deale iustly with me: come, come; nay speake
But what we do determine, oft we breake:
With Armes encombred thus, or thus, head shake;
into dust; the dust is earth; of earth we make
And he repulsed. A short Tale to make,
When he himselfe might his Quietus make
  Clo. I, tell me that, and vnyoake
Hamlet comes backe: what would you vndertake,
What should this meane? Are all the rest come backe?
Nor Customary suites of solemne Blacke,
And that his Soule may be as damn'd and blacke
   Ham. So long? Nay then let the Diuel weare blacke,
Ambitious, with more offences at my becke,
To mine Sprindge, Osricke,
   King. Giue them the Foyles yong Osricke,
Enter young Osricke.
Enter Osricke.
Come some Musicke
Note, to the top of my Compasse: and there is much Musicke,
   Polon. And let him plye his Musicke
mouth, and it will discourse most excellent Musicke.
Of Reuerend Priam, seem'd i'th' Ayre to sticke:
   Mar. It faded on the crowing of the Cocke.
  Laer. Why as a Woodcocke
A verie verie Paiocke
Do's not diuide the Sunday from the weeke,
I alone became their Prisoner. They haue dealt with mee, like
These hands are not more like
this Line, let me see, let me see: The rugged Pyrrhus like
That thy Rebellion lookes so Gyant-like?
The nights are wholsome, then no Planets strike,
And with a larger tether may he walke,
Wherein the Spirit held his wont to walke.
Yet there is Method in't: will you walke
And curd, like Aygre droppings into Milke,
That it did seeme to shatter all his bulke,
declines his head vpon her neck. Layes him downe vpon a Banke
I bought an Vnction of a Mountebanke
What forgeries you please; marry, none so ranke,
  Ophe. I do not know, my Lord, what I should thinke
Your wisedome best shall thinke
to play at Loggets with 'em? mine ake to thinke
You must not thinke
   Qu. No, no, the drinke, the drinke.
Oh my deere Hamlet, the drinke, the drinke,
   King. Stay, giue me drinke.
Till that her garments, heauy with her drinke,
   King. Gertrude, do not drinke
Enter Hamlet reading on a Booke.
If I had playd the Deske or Table-booke,
We will bestow our selues: Reade on this booke,
Sprinkle coole patience. Whereon do you looke?
  Queen. There is a Willow growes aslant a Brooke,
   Mar. No, it is strooke
So bloodily hast strooke
And in this vpshot, purposes mistooke,
  King. The doores are broke
Clambring to hang; an enuious sliuer broke,
   Rosin. Then thus she sayes: your behauior hath stroke
The neede we haue to vse you, did prouoke
  Ham. That is Laertes, a very Noble youth: Marke
My sea-gowne scarft about me in the darke,
Who in her Dutie and Obedience, marke,
In which the Maiesty of buried Denmarke
FINIS. The tragedie of HAMLET, Prince of Denmarke.
A Serpent stung me: so the whole eare of Denmarke,
  Mar. Something is rotten in the State of Denmarke
   Ham. There's nere a villaine dwelling in all Denmarke
the King himselfe, for your Succession in Denmarke?
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmarke;
And let thine eye looke like a Friend on Denmarke.
From whence, though willingly I came to Denmarke
  Osr. Your Lordship is right welcome back to Denmarke
   Ophe. Pray you marke.
  Ophe. Say you? Nay pray you marke.
Will the King heare this peece of Worke?
A rowsed Vengeance sets him new a-worke,
What might you thinke? No, I went round to worke,
Then venome to thy worke.
Why such impresse of Ship-wrights, whose sore Taske
I suffred much extreamity for loue: very neere this. Ile
cheefe Speech in it, I cheefely lou'd, 'twas Aeneas Tale
Which was the Modell of that Danish Seale:
Where euery God did seeme to set his Seale,
(My feares forgetting manners) to vnseale
  Polon. Verie like a Whale
   Ham. Or like a Whale?
   Barn. How now Horatio? You tremble & look pale:
  Hor. Nay very pale
know not what we may be. God be at your Table
   King. Set me the Stopes of wine vpon that Table:
     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
   King. 'Tis sweet and commendable
purpose.  To the best of my knowledge he read ALL those available
To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
For it is as the Ayre, invulnerable,
  King. As of a man, faithfull and Honourable
How weary, stale, flat, and vnprofitable
Be thy euents wicked or charitable,
Oh horrible Oh horrible, most horrible:
   Ham. Is't possible?
   Hor. Ist possible?
Blacke as his purpose, did the night resemble
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
Vouchers vouch him no more of his Purchases, and double
   Ham. O my Propheticke soule: mine Vncle?
   Ham. Then you liue about her waste, or in the middle
  Ham. They are comming to the Play: I must be idle.
Rapiers and Poniards, with their assignes, as Girdle,
  Queen. One woe doth tread vpon anothers heele,
What's neere it, with it. It is a massie wheele
Breake all the Spokes and Fallies from her wheele,
Grapple them to thy Soule, with hoopes of Steele:
Bow stubborne knees, and heart with strings of Steele,
That thou dead Coarse againe in compleat steele,
I had not quoted him. I feare he did but trifle,
   Rosin. The single
May fit vs to our shape, if this should faile;
I saw him enter such a house of saile;
The winde sits in the shoulder of your saile,
Woo't drinke vp Esile, eate a Crocodile?
Absent thee from felicitie awhile,
   Bar. Sit downe a-while,
Sweet, leaue me heere a while,
Depriu'd thee of. Hold off the earth a while,
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
As to expend your time with vs a-while,
  Ham. Ile play this bout first, set by a-while.
When we haue shuffel'd off this mortall coile,
My spirits grow dull, and faine I would beguile
Vngartred, and downe giued to his Anckle,
Would haue mourn'd longer) married with mine Vnkle,
In equall Scale weighing Delight and Dole
When yond same Starre that's Westward from the Pole
All Flaxen was his Pole:
till he find it stopping a bunghole
Roaming it thus, you'l tender me a foole
Vpon my secure hower thy Vncle stole
That from a shelfe, the precious Diadem stole,
So frown'd he once, when in an angry parle
   Polon. Affection, puh. You speake like a greene Girle,
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd Forme a little,
They shall go farre with little
pace; But there is Sir an ayrie of Children, little
A Cutpurse of the Empire and the Rule.
The inward seruice of the Minde and Soule
When the Bloud burnes, how Prodigall the Soule
may giue it Smoothnesse. O it offends mee to the Soule,
O step betweene her, and her fighting Soule,
  Clo. One that was a woman Sir; but rest her Soule,
To take him in the purging of his Soule,
Gramercy on his Soule.
I hold my dutie, as I hold my Soule,
Euen with the verie Comment of my Soule
And my Imaginations are as foule
She's so coniunctiue to my life, and soule;
And we shall ioyntly labour with your soule
Lay not a flattering Vnction to your soule,
Was not like Madnesse. There's something in his soule?
   Laer. The deuill take thy soule
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soule,
would driue me into a toyle?
To Reason most absurd, whose common Theame
   Qu. Oh my Sonne, what Theame?
of a Dreame
That shewes his hore leaues in the glassie streame:
And set a double varnish on the fame
And melt in her owne fire. Proclaime no shame,
   Polon. Yet heere Laertes? Aboord, aboord for shame,
Alacke, and fie for shame:
By Cocke they are too blame.
I can no more, the King, the King's too blame
Threatning the flame
Oh good Horatio, what a wounded name,
you gidge, you amble, and you lispe, and nickname
That liberall Shepheards giue a grosser name;
Our State to be disioynt, and out of Frame,
   Kin. The very same
Quoth she before you tumbled me,
Brutus kill'd me
And they shall heare and iudge 'twixt you and me;
(Things standing thus vnknowne) shall liue behind me.
This in Obedience hath my daughter shew'd me:
That can denote me truly. These indeed Seeme,
This sodaine sending him away, must seeme
nor Woman neither; though by your smiling you seeme
   Ham. Why I will fight with him vppon this Theme.
   Gho. Marke me
Who is't that can informe me?
To speake of horrors: he comes before me
here he sayes alone: Can you aduise me?
Inuite me,
  Rosin. My Lord, you once did loue me
  Ham. Nay then I haue an eye of you: if you loue me
  Pol. What do you thinke of me?
I am affear'd you make a wanton of me
  Hora. What are they that would speake with me?
I pray you go with me.
To punish me with this, and this with me,
Were nothing but to waste Night, Day, and Time.
But that I know Loue is begun by Time:
To morrow is S[aint]. Valentines day, all in the morning betime,
So hallow'd, and so gracious is the time
My Pulse as yours doth temperately keepe time,
For who would beare the Whips and Scornes of time,
Whereas they had deliuer'd both in time,
   Qu. Did you assay him to any pastime?
Why day is day; night, night; and time is time,
To keepe my name vngorg'd. But till that time,
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
   Laer. It well appeares. But tell me,
  Kin. Come Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me
   Clo. 'Tis a quicke lye Sir, 'twill away againe from me
I pray you pardon me
Nor thine on me.
Would make them capeable. Do not looke vpon me,
And to the last, bended their light on me
If it be so, as so tis put on me;
may doe well to thee. Too't againe, Come
your owne inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
wife: man & wife is one flesh, and so my mother. Come,
When Rossius an Actor in Rome-
   Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy; come bird, come
There with fantasticke Garlands did she come,
I doubt some foule play: would the Night were come;
To let this Canker of our nature come
   Ham. He will stay till ye come
   Ham. You are welcome
   Ham. And therefore as a stranger giue it welcome.
For her perfections. But my reuenge will come
Be as our selfe in Denmarke. Madam come,
  Laer. I'm lost in it my Lord; but let him come,
That if againe this Apparition come,
Repent what's past, auoyd what is to come,
   Hor. Haue after, to what issue will this come?
Abridgements come.
   Gho. My hower is almost come,
Then are dream't of in our Philosophy. But come,
For in that sleepe of death, what dreames may come,
Oh heere they come.
To beare our hearts in greefe, and our whole Kingdome
I haue some Rites of memory in this Kingdome,
Hamlet return'd, shall know you are come home:
Most welcome home.
Her Maiden strewments, and the bringing home
To heare the Processe. Ile warrant shee'l tax him home,
With tristfull visage as against the doome,
Ile lugge the Guts into the Neighbor roome,
the right breed. If it shall please you to make me a wholsome
The Soule of Nero, enter this firme bosome:
   Guild. Good my Lord put your discourse into some
What thou hast saide to me
His accesse to me
That may to thee do ease, and grace to me; speak to me.
Of his affection to me
Stand dumbe and speake not to him. This to me
And to the manner borne: It is a Custome
   Horat. Is it a custome?
At last, a little shaking of mine Arme:
No Faiery talkes, nor Witch hath power to Charme:
And as the sleeping Soldiours in th' Alarme,
Then goes he to the length of all his arme;
Adue, adue, Hamlet: remember me.
  Qu. What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murther me?
In filiall Obligation, for some terme
King, Father, Royall Dane: Oh, oh, answer me,
The glasse of Fashion, and the mould of Forme,
Together with that Faire and Warlike forme
And there assumes some other horrible forme,
   Laer. Come one for me
But as we often see against some storme,
   Ham. Indeed, indeed Sirs; but this troubles me.
Blasted with extasie. Oh woe is me,
By Heau'n, Ile make a Ghost of him that lets me:
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
   King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
not me?
  Qu. Haue you forgot me?
In noise so rude against me?
But sure the brauery of his griefe did put me
How otherwise will you be rul'd by me?
   Qu. Come hither my good Hamlet, sit by me
Author of affectation, but cal'd it an honest method. One
  Ham. One
I am more an Antike Roman then a Dane:
Damned Dane,
   Mar. And Leige-men to the Dane
You cannot speake of Reason to the Dane,
Hamlet the Dane
So much as from Occasions you may gleane,
To cast thee vp againe? What may this meane?
Enter Rosincrane.
Hath seal'd thee for her selfe. For thou hast bene
About the World haue times twelue thirties beene,
And thirtie dozen Moones with borrowed sheene,
   Ophe. You are keene my Lord, you are keene
I know my course. The Spirit that I haue seene
It is a damned Ghost that we haue seene:
What we two Nights haue seene
   Ham. Neuer to speake of this that you haue seene.
Will so bestow our selues, that seeing vnseene
  Clo. Why heere in Denmarke: I haue bin sixeteene
   Ham. The inobled Queene?
Maiesty: this to the Queene
   Ham. How does the Queene?
Enter Queene.
Therefore our sometimes Sister, now our Queene,
Enter King and his Queene.
The will of my most seeming vertuous Queene:
Our purpose may hold there; how sweet Queene.
My Crowne, mine owne Ambition, and my Queene:
And that your Grace hath screen'd, and stoode betweene
  Osr. The King Sir, hath laid that in a dozen passes betweene
within the ring. Masters, you are all welcome: wee'l e'ne
Haue by the very cunning of the Scoene,
Will nothing sticke our persons to Arraigne
And carriage of the Article designe,
   Ham. Ile watch to Night; perchance 'twill wake againe
Who was (if praises may go backe againe)
I shall not look vpon his like againe
He neuer wil come againe.
And will he not come againe:
   Ophe. And will he not come againe,
   Ham. Nay come, againe
And the Kings Rouce, the Heauens shall bruite againe,
   Laer. Well: againe
Looke where it comes againe
But soft, behold: Loe, where it comes againe:
Now feare I this will giue it start againe;
Enter Ghost againe.
Would haue reuerted to my Bow againe,
Will bring him to his wonted way againe,
you, and Spundge you shall be dry againe
   Ham. A Murderer, and a Villaine:
That one may smile, and smile and be a Villaine;
Oh Villaine, Villaine, smiling damned Villaine!
Remorselesse, Treacherous, Letcherous, kindles villaine!
With this Slaues Offall, bloudy: a Bawdy villaine,
   Pol. Oh I am slaine.
That he which hath your Noble Father slaine,
But in Battalians. First, her Father slaine,
Hamlet in madnesse hath Polonius slaine,
Hamlet, thou art slaine,
   Qu. I doubt it is no other, but the maine,
And we beseech you, bend you to remaine
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in paine,
  Qu. This is the very coynage of your Braine,
   Qu. Sleepe rocke thy Braine,
Within the Booke and Volume of my Braine,
A Scullion? Fye vpon't: Foh. About my Braine.
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten, a certaine
   Hor. That is most certaine
Then weight what losse your Honour may sustaine,
Thou hast cleft my heart in twaine
And neuer come mischance betweene vs twaine.
Receiues rebuke from Norwey: and in fine,
Nature is fine in Loue, and where 'tis fine,
And that I hope will teach you to imagine-
   King. Take thy faire houre Laertes, time be thine,
Hamlet, this Pearle is thine,
   Ham. Thou dost lye in't, to be in't and say 'tis thine:
He that thou knowest thine,
Ile doo't. Dost thou come heere to whine;
I made to her in Marriage; and to decline
And I do thinke, or else this braine of mine
I haue a daughter: haue, whil'st she is mine,
for my part, I doe not lye in't; and yet it is mine
The thin and wholsome blood: so did it mine;
  Ham. That I can keepe your counsell, and not mine
words are not mine
the laying in) he will last you some eight yeare, or nine
And I a Maid at your Window, to be your Valentine.
Like Quilles vpon the fretfull Porpentine:
Whilst like a puft and recklesse Libertine
How now? What hath befalne?
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis Kinne
Cut off euen in the Blossomes of my Sinne,
My too much changed Sonne.
Start vp, and stand an end. Oh gentle Sonne,
Our cheefest Courtier Cosin, and our Sonne
Good Gertrude set some watch ouer your Sonne,
Where is your Sonne?
Then that which deerest Father beares his Sonne,
But now my Cosin Hamlet, and my Sonne?
You laying these slight sulleyes on my Sonne,
So would I ha done by yonder Sunne,
Sindging his pate against the burning Zone,
Away, for euery thing is Seal'd and done
  Priest. No more be done:
   Laer. Must there no more be done ?
Make vs againe count o're, ere loue be done.
Speake to me. If there be any good thing to be done,
With sore distraction? What I haue done
   Rosin. Then is the World one
Shewes it selfe pure. He weepes for what is done
And thou must cure me: Till I know 'tis done,
   Qu. Oh me, what hast thou done?
Yet now I must confesse, that duty done,
He is dead and gone Lady, he is dead and gone,
Euen on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
Let shame say what it will; when these are gone
The Bell then beating one
   Mar. 'Tis gone.
Your better Wisedomes, which haue freely gone
  Ham. I so, God buy'ye: Now I am alone.
Attends the boystrous Ruine. Neuer alone
To you alone
For nature cressant does not grow alone,
He is gone, he is gone, and we cast away mone,
   Other. Why he had none
I will speake Daggers to her, but vse none:
   Bap. So many iournies may the Sunne and Moone
Reuisits thus the glimpses of the Moone,
If she vnmaske her beauty to the Moone:
By his Cockle hat and staffe, and his Sandal shoone
My custome alwayes in the afternoone;
  Ophe. How should I your true loue know from another one?
Did the King sighe, but with a generall grone
You are the most immediate to our Throne,
Would like the Spring that turneth Wood to Stone,
At his head a grasse-greene Turfe, at his heeles a stone.
To you your selfe, to vs, to euery one.
On Mars his Armours, forg'd for proofe Eterne,
  King. Welcome deere Rosincrance and Guildensterne.
Enter King, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.
Enter Rosincrance and Guildensterne.
Enter Polonius, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.
Enter Rosincran and Guildensterne.
Enter Ros. and Guildensterne.
Enter Hamlet and Guildensterne.
   King. Thankes Rosincrance, and gentle Guildensterne
The vndiscouered Countrey, from whose Borne
In Denmarkes Crowne haue worne.
   King. 'Tis deepely sworne:
Since Frost it selfe, as actiuely doth burne,
th' Occasions of my sodaine, and more strange returne.
you my good friends, deserued at the hands of Fortune,
The Slings and Arrowes of outragious Fortune,
I tooke thee for thy Betters, take thy Fortune,
For me, with sorrow, I embrace my Fortune,
With an intreaty heerein further shewne,
And thrice his head thus wauing vp and downe;
   1.Play. Run bare-foot vp and downe,
And breake your owne necke downe
They had begun the Play. I sate me downe,
Th' obseru'd of all Obseruers, quite, quite downe.
   Hor. Well, sit we downe,
And as he dreines his draughts of Renish downe,
As therein are set downe
excellent Play; well digested in the Scoenes, set downe
My Tables, my Tables; meet it is I set it downe,
Leaue wringing of your hands, peace, sit you downe,
Antiquity forgot, Custome not knowne,
As are Companions noted and most knowne
Now weares his Crowne
marke you that? But if the water come to him & drowne
the Mirrour vp to Nature; to shew Vertue her owne
As if encrease of Appetite had growne
Deliberate pause, diseases desperate growne,
  Rosin. None my Lord; but that the World's growne
  Ophe. O what a Noble minde is heere o're-throwne?
That our Deuices still are ouerthrowne,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our owne.
   Ham. Be not too tame neyther: but let your owne
His greatnesse weigh'd, his will is not his owne;
And after we will both our iudgements ioyne,
That Soop-stake you will draw both Friend and Foe,
That he should weepe for her? What would he doe,
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we doe?
Theeues of Mercy, but they knew what they did. I am to doe
That you know ought of me; this not to doe:
Hee may not, as vnuallued persons doe,
Doe not as some vngracious Pastors doe,
I once did hold it as our Statists doe,
   Ham. Come show me what thou'lt doe.
And end his being. That done, he lets me goe,
   Hor. Be rul'd, you shall not goe
   Ham. From top to toe?
These, but the Trappings, and the Suites of woe
To be contracted in one brow of woe:
Let the Birds flye, and like the famous Ape
Ile speake to it, though Hell it selfe should gape
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
   Ham. Do you see that Clowd? that's almost in shape
   Ophe. I shall th' effect of this good Lesson keepe,
And how, and who; what meanes; and where they keepe:
The tedious day with sleepe
Deuoutly to be wish'd. To dye to sleepe,
And by opposing end them: to dye, to sleepe
And Conuoy is assistant; doe not sleepe,
For some must watch, while some must sleepe;
Forth at your eyes, your spirits wildely peepe,
To try Conclusions in the Basket, creepe
  Ham. Why let the strucken Deere go weepe,
vpon this Pipe?
   Pol. What hoa, helpe, helpe, helpe
For out adores he went without their helpe;
The Barke is readie, and the winde at helpe,
No, let the Candied tongue, like absurd pompe,
For the supply and profit of our Hope,
To businesse with the King, more then the scope
O're whom his very madnesse like some Oare
All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
With a bare Bodkin? Who would these Fardles beare
Heere is your Husband, like a Mildew'd eare
And Ile be plac'd so, please you in the eare
All giuen to mine eare
   Ham. Why, what should be the feare?
Almost to Ielly with the Act of feare,
Be wary then, best safety lies in feare;
For we will Fetters put vpon this feare,
The vertue of his feare: but you must feare
Sith you haue heard, and with a knowing eare,
   Ham. For Heauens loue let me heare
Since Nature makes them partiall, should o're-heare
   Ham. Nor did you nothing heare?
   Ham. Speake, I am bound to heare
   King. Oh speake of that, that I do long to heare
foolish eare
Would'st thou not stirre in this. Now Hamlet heare:
   Gho. So art thou to reuenge, when thou shalt heare
Where thrift may follow faining? Dost thou heare,
How these things came about. So shall you heare
   Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appeare
by William Shakespeare
purer Shakespeare.
too light, for the law of Writ, and the Liberty. These are
And wants not Buzzers to infect his eare
And on his graue raines many a teare,
Sweare
   Gho. Sweare
   Gho. Sweare.
   Gho. Sweare
   Ghost. Sweare
As Peace should still her wheaten Garland weare,
Consent to sweare
great mans Memorie, may out-liue his life halfe a yeare:
yeare. A Tanner will last you nine yeare
   Hor. Halfe a share
     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
from you: wee coated them on the way, and hither are
Where it drawes blood, no Cataplasme so rare,
How pregnant (sometimes) his Replies are?
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
I say, we will haue no more Marriages. Those that are
Of each vnhatch't, vnfledg'd Comrade. Beware
Do ye heare, let them be well vs'd: for they are
abhorred my Imagination is, my gorge rises at it. Heere
For thou dost know: Oh Damon deere,
Much heate, and him. Ile silence me e'ene heere:
And to my mind, though I am natiue heere,
Drinke off this Potion: Is thy Vnion heere?
And much offence too, touching this Vision heere:
He walkes foure houres together, heere
Is it not monstrous that this Player heere,
   Hor. Peace, who comes heere?
And now reignes heere.
   Barn. 'Tis heere
   Hor. 'Tis heere
The Glow-worme showes the Matine to be neere,
Youth to it selfe rebels, though none else neere
   King. At Supper? Where?
That as the Starre moues not but in his Sphere,
   Ham. Slanders Sir: for the Satyricall slaue saies here,
That youth and obseruation coppied there;
Hath in the skirts of Norway, heere and there,
   Ham. I would I had beene there
It had bin so with vs had we beene there:
What is the issue of the businesse there
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
   King. Go seeke him there
   Bar. Say, what is Horatio there?
wits there; or if he do not, it's no great matter there
Oh Hamlet, what a falling off was there,
  Barnardo. Who's there?
  Barnardo. Who's there?
  Fran. I thinke I heare them. Stand: who's there?
   Polon. You goe to seeke my Lord Hamlet; there
That he, as 'twere by accident, may there
   Laer. Drown'd! O where?
To England send him: Or confine him where
Answere
   Osr. Exceedingly, my Lord, it is very soultry, as 'twere
  Ham. Why any thing. But to the purpose; you were
And gins to pale his vneffectuall Fire:
Deuis'd a new Commission, wrote it faire,
   Ham. Are you faire?
To their vilde Murthers, roasted in wrath and fire,
Let all the Battlements their Ordinance fire,
Doubt thou, the Starres are fire,
   Ham. What, frighted with false fire
Out of the shot and danger of Desire.
As if it some impartment did desire
For euery man ha's businesse and desire,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
Grop'd I to finde out them; had my desire,
Then vp he rose, & don'd his clothes, & dupt the chamber dore,
And pious Action, we do surge o're
Queene: moult no feather, I haue of late, but wherefore
And thus o're-sized with coagulate gore,
Let in the Maid, that out a Maid, neuer departed more
And thinke it pastime. You shortly shall heare more,
To keepe it selfe from noyance: but much more,
Whose voyce will draw on more:
The suppliance of a minute? No more
   Qu. No more.
  Ham. Why one faire Daughter, and no more,
   Qu. O Hamlet, speake no more.
   Qu. Oh speake to me, no more,
or rather you say, my Mother: therfore no more
The interim's mine, and a mans life's no more
   Laer. Thinke it no more:
ha's teares in's eyes. Pray you no more
Makes Vow before his Vnkle, neuer more
   Laer. I thanke you: Keepe the doore.
Vpon a wretch, whose Naturall gifts were poore
The Souldiours Musicke, and the rites of Warre
Quarelling, drabbing. You may goe so farre
to his Purgation, would perhaps plundge him into farre
Lord Hamlet is a Prince out of thy Starre,
And Forraigne Mart for Implements of warre:
Behinde the Arras, hearing something stirre,
The termes of our estate, may not endure
And pittie it is true: A foolish figure,
You heauenly Guards. What would your gracious figure?
  Ham. That you must teach me: but let mee coniure
   Mar. Thus twice before, and iust at this dead houre,
   Fran. You come most carefully vpon your houre
And in the Porches of mine eares did poure
pleasure
Haue you so slander any moment leisure,
Hunts not the traile of Policie, so sure
  Ham. Here's the Commission, read it at more leysure:
   Osr. Sweet Lord, if your friendship were at leysure,
Making Night hidious? And we fooles of Nature,
Till the foule crimes done in my dayes of Nature
Yet so farre hath Discretion fought with Nature,
   Laer. I am satisfied in Nature,
That growes to Seed: Things rank, and grosse in Nature
So crimefull, and so Capitall in Nature,
A fault against the Dead, a fault to Nature,
A Violet in the youth of Primy Nature;
  Ham. To this effect Sir, after what flourish your nature
Promontory; this most excellent Canopy the Ayre,
  Pol. Indeed that is out o'th' Ayre:
Whether in Sea, or Fire, in Earth, or Ayre,
But soft, me thinkes I sent the Mornings Ayre;
frame, and start not so wildely from my affayre
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager ayre
Among a Minerall of Mettels base
Will not peruse the Foiles? So that with ease,
   Ham. Sir, I will walke heere in the Hall; if it please
We heard it all. My Lord, do as you please,
But like the Owner of a foule disease,
Or not to crack the winde of the poore Phrase,
Or by pronouncing of some doubtfull Phrase;
bosome, these
Horatio, When thou shalt haue ouerlook'd this, giue these
Last, and as much containing as all these,
   King. I haue nothing with this answer Hamlet, these
I know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all custome of exercise;
Hath giuen me this: now gather, and surmise.
Till then sit still my soule; foule deeds will rise,
Vnbated and envenom'd: the foule practise
For who that's but a Queene, faire, sober, wise,
When it prou'd otherwise?
   Pol. Take this from this; if this be otherwise,
is your onely Emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else
As by your Safety, Wisedome, all things else,
   Laer. What Cerimony else?
   Laer. What Cerimony else?
That it is proofe and bulwarke against Sense
As my great power thereof may giue thee sense,
the daintier sense
Cals Vertue Hypocrite, takes off the Rose
Hath 'tane with equall Thankes. And blest are those,
          does *not* contain characters other than those
does well; but how does it well? it does well to those
he suffer not thinking on, with the Hoby-horsse, whose
thing so ouer-done, is fro[m] the purpose of Playing, whose
Generall: but it was (as I receiu'd it, and others, whose
  King. Follow her close,
And I do doubt the hatch, and the disclose
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose:
What to our selues in passion we propose,
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
And to such wondrous doing brought his Horse,
When he lay couched in the Ominous Horse,
   Ophe. Still better and worse
I had my fathers Signet in my Purse,
In obstinate Condolement, is a course
And with their corporall ayre do hold discourse.
   Ham. Then can each Actor on his Asse-
You go not till I set you vp a glasse,
Yea this solidity and compound masse,
That it might please you to giue quiet passe
to thee; if thou answerest me not to the purpose, confesse
  Laer. A touch, a touch, I do confesse
So tell him with the occurrents more and lesse,
Without debatement further, more or lesse,
   Kin. This is meere Madnesse:
Mad call I it; for to define true Madnesse,
   Pol. Though this be madnesse,
And I the matter will re-word: which madnesse
That I essentially am not in madnesse,
Roughly awake, I heere proclaime was madnesse:
And makes as healthfull Musicke. It is not madnesse
force of Honestie can translate Beautie into his likenesse.
A happinesse,
And that shall lend a kinde of easinesse
  Hor. Custome hath made it in him a property of easinesse
Answer, and thinke vpon this Businesse.
my Businesse
She turnes to Fauour, and to prettinesse
Thence to a Watch, thence into a Weaknesse,
It lifted vp it head, and did addresse
Of this his Nephewes purpose, to suppresse
Vpon our first, he sent out to suppresse
As one incapable of her owne distresse,
Each toy seemes Prologue, to some great amisse,
And wager on your heads, he being remisse,
Who calles me Villaine? breakes my pate a-crosse?
Of death's put on by cunning, and forc'd cause,
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
For this effect defectiue, comes by cause,
Like Iohn a-dreames, vnpregnant of my cause,
That your good Beauties be the happy cause
Doth rend the Region. So after Pyrrhus pause,
Both countenance, and excuse.
To tell the secrets of my Prison-House;
Pinch Wanton on your cheeke, call you his Mouse,
There was he gaming, there o'retooke in's Rouse,
That I haue shot mine Arrow o're the house,
  Ham. The King doth wake to night, and takes his rouse,
after his desart, and who should scape whipping: vse
Since my deere Soule was Mistris of my choyse,
If thou art priuy to thy Countries Fate
They are not neere my Conscience; their debate
deare to fancy, very responsiue to the hilts, most delicate
  Ham. Excellent Ifaith, of the Camelions dish: I eate
I, thou poore Ghost, while memory holds a seate
But woe is me, you are so sicke of late,
What haue you giuen him any hard words of late?
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
And our affaires from England come too late,
   King. It is the poyson'd Cup, it is too late
My Liege, and Madam, to expostulate
  Ham. Why, euen in that was Heauen ordinate;
Queene returnes, findes the King dead, and makes passionate
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding Throate
Tweakes me by'th' Nose? giues me the Lye i'th' Throate,
Set your entreatments at a higher rate,
Let me be no Assistant for a State,
Th' imperiall Ioyntresse of this warlike State,
The sanctity and health of the whole State.
Th' expectansie and Rose of the faire State,
This boades some strange erruption to our State
(And it doth well appeare vnto our State)
Fore do it owne life; 'twas some Estate.
Of his true state
So farre from cheere, and from your former state,
At gaming, swearing, or about some acte
That are but Mutes or audience to this acte:
To lay our Seruices freely at your feete,
for and a shrowding-Sheete:
O me thought there was nothing meete
for such a Guest is meete
for such a Guest is meete
me thought it was very sweete:
Phrase: but you shall heare these in her excellent white
As of a Father; For let the world take note,
As Vulcans Stythe. Giue him needfull note,
Or such ambiguous giuing out to note,
With Heraldry more dismall: Head to foote
  Both. My Lord, from head to foote
  King. Follow him at foote,
That thou so many Princes, at a shoote,
Go, bid the Souldiers shoote.
The effects of what I wrote?
Eates not the Flats with more impittious haste
For the demand of our neglected Tribute:
I was about say somthing: where did I leaue?
Occasion smiles vpon a second leaue
   Laer. I pray you giue me leaue
   King. Haue you your Fathers leaue?
  Reynol. My Lord I haue
a good turne for them. Let the King haue the Letters I haue
or Norman, haue so strutted and bellowed, that I haue
   Qu. What would she haue?
  Clo. Ifaith, if he be not rotten before he die (as we haue
And makes vs rather beare those illes we haue,
not true. Let me question more in particular: what haue
Who was in life, a foolish prating Knaue.
But hee's an arrant knaue
  Other. I tell thee she is, and therefore make her Graue
To outface me with leaping in her Graue?
And not t'haue strew'd thy Graue
  Ham. Into my Graue?
Who? What an Asse am I? I sure, this is most braue,
Leaps in the graue.
Is now most still, most secret, and most graue,
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I beleeue
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this beleeue
reckon my grones; but that I loue thee best, oh most Best beleeue
Which we do tender, as we deerely greeue
   Ham. If thou doest Marry, Ile giue thee this Plague
   Ham. Go, go, you question with an idle tongue
   Qu. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue
See thou Character. Giue thy thoughts no tongue,
Giue it an vnderstanding but no tongue;
himselfe, there are no tongues else for's tongue
But breake my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Enter Prologue.
what Lenton entertainment the Players shall receiue
a thousand pound. Did'st perceiue?
They finde vs touch'd, we will our Kingdome giue,
then I haue thoughts to put them in imagination, to giue
And thy Commandment all alone shall liue
   Ham. Nay, but to liue
Taint not thy mind; nor let thy Soule contriue
   Ha. No good Mother, here's Mettle more attractiue
I could not but by her. The other Motiue,
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
Vpon the Platforme twixt eleuen and twelue,
  Hor. I thinke it lacks of twelue
loue.
Anon as patient as the female Doue,
Fare you well my Doue
Whether Loue lead Fortune, or else Fortune Loue.
This is the very extasie of Loue,
Could not (with all there quantitie of Loue)
Are base respects of Thrift, but none of Loue.
As meditation, or the thoughts of Loue,
And with no lesse Nobility of Loue,
   King. But how hath she receiu'd his Loue?
   Polon. Mad for thy Loue?
Buyes out the Law; but 'tis not so aboue,
To contract O the time for a my behoue,
But neuer Doubt, I loue.
our youth, by the Obligation of our euer-preserued loue,
In youth when I did loue, did loue,
I do receiue your offer'd loue like loue,
Stew'd in Corruption; honying and making loue
   Ophe. My Lord, he hath importun'd me with loue,
If thou didst euer thy deare Father loue
More greefe to hide, then hate to vtter loue.
This mad yong man. But so much was our loue,
   Ham. I could interpret betweene you and your loue:
   Ham. As Womans loue.
From the faire forehead of an innocent loue,
  Guild. O my Lord, if my Dutie be too bold, my loue
   Bapt. The instances that second Marriage moue,
Doubt, that the Sunne doth moue:
Yet the vnshaped vse of it doth moue
This must be knowne, being kept close might moue
For 'tis a question left vs yet to proue,
As hardy as the Nemian Lions nerue:
This aboue all; to thine owne selfe be true:
   Hor. As I doe liue my honourd Lord 'tis true;
   King. Oh 'tis true:
   Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? Oh, most true:
   Pol. 'Tis most true:
Collected from all Simples that haue Vertue
To make them ranke. Forgiue me this my Vertue,
   Ham. You should not haue beleeued me. For vertue
the spelling errors introduced by the printers of the time have
this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
After the Danish Sword, and thy free awe
Oh, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
more years, so we are looking for something to replace it, as we
  Guil. Faith, her priuates, we
of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 Etexts unless we
No not to stay the grinding of the Axe,
To flaming youth, let Vertue be as waxe.
No, nor the fruitfull Riuer in the Eye,
Thou know'st 'tis common, all that liues must dye,
Burne out the Sence and Vertue of mine eye.
With one Auspicious, and one Dropping eye,
Guildensterne? Oh, Rosincrane; good Lads: How doe ye
Heere in the cheere and comfort of our eye,
As day do's to your eye.
   Pol. Ophelia, walke you heere. Gracious so please ye
We shall expresse our dutie in his eye,
And you the Iudges beare a wary eye
Go some of ye,
Hath turn'd it selfe on me. Loe, heere I lye,
Ouer the nasty Stye
God buy ye.
I haue a speech of fire, that faine would blaze,
For Foode and Diet, to some Enterprize
Through your Dominions, for his Enterprize,
   Kin. No place indeed should murder Sancturize;
   Ham. Buzze, buzze
off.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio a farre off.
My head should be struck off
   Queen. Good Hamlet cast thy nightly colour off,
Trumpets sound, and shot goes off.
hold not off
King hold his purpose; I will win for him if I can: if
if your mail bounces from archive.org, I will still see it, if
if not, your pardon, and my returne shall bee the end of
So prosperously be deliuer'd of.
   Rosin. How can that be, when you haue the voyce of
call them) that many wearing Rapiers, are affraide of
   Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kinde of
the time, and outward habite of encounter, a kinde of
Tempest, and (as I say) the Whirle-winde of
   Mar. Peace, breake thee of:
Groundlings: who (for the most part) are capeable of
that I know the drossie age dotes on; only got the tune of
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
ones too, then the length and breadth of a paire of
   Ham. It is not strange: for mine Vnckle is King of
files per month, or 432 more Etexts in 1999 for a total of 2000+
the Sconce with a dirty Shouell, and will not tell him of
If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
   Guild. Nay, good my Lord, this courtesie is not of
Then flye to others that we know not of.
Would not this Sir, and a Forrest of Feathers, if the rest of
  Guild. Oh there ha's beene much throwing about of
you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
Vntill my eielids will no longer wag
There's such Diuinity doth hedge a King,
should be made by the Sonne of a King
   Qu. As kill a King?
And can say nothing: No, not for a King,
They cry choose we? Laertes shall be King,
   Polon. Goe with me, I will goe seeke the King,
   Mar. Is it not like the King?
There is a Play to night to before the King.
   Bar. Long liue the King
   Bar. Long liue the King
Wherein Ile catch the Conscience of the King.
   Ham. An earnest Coniuration from the King,
Rewards, his Authorities (but such Officers do the King
To lacke discretion. Come, go we to the King,
and go with vs to the King
This is one Lucianus nephew to the King
But soft, but soft, aside; heere comes the King.
Hurts the King.
  Ham. Nay I know not, is it the King?
  For. Go Captaine, from me greet the Danish King,
Enter King.
Enter King.
Enter King.
Laertes shall be King, Laertes King
Both to my God, one to my gracious King:
to fat vs, and we fat our selfe for Magots. Your fat King,
At least the whisper goes so: Our last King,
  Hor. I saw him once; he was a goodly King
   Ham. Is this a Prologue, or the Poesie of a Ring?
Enter a King and Queene, very louingly; the Queene embracing
Comes reading
I thinke it was to see my Mothers Wedding
What company, at what expence: and finding
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
Drugges fit, and Time agreeing:
Confederate season, else, no Creature seeing:
with the body. The King, is a thing-
   Ham. Why looke you now, how vnworthy a thing
More Relatiue then this: The Play's the thing,
Ducates a peece, for his picture in Little. There is something
Horatio tell me one thing
Or is it some abuse? Or no such thing?
  Ham. Nothing
And like a Newtrall to his will and matter, did nothing.
   Bar. I haue seene nothing
With Formes, to his Conceit? And all for nothing?
   Ham. Why then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
That carry but halfe sense: Her speech is nothing,
As one in suffering all, that suffers nothing.
fretted with golden fire: why, it appeares no other thing
   Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
Euen in their promise, as it is a making;
he sings at Graue-making?
   Ham. This man shall set me packing:
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i'th' working:
That shall not be my Offer, not thy Asking?
conjoined ae have been changed to ae.  I have left the spelling,
original meaning of the term cliche. . .and thus, being unwilling
When thou liest howling?
Poysoner, with some two or three Mutes comes in againe, seeming
To censure of his seeming
Withdraw, I heare him coming.
above. . .and you may wonder why they did it this way, presuming
   Ham. Vpon the talke of the poysoning?
Awake the God of Day: and at his warning,
Players. Mark it, you say right Sir: for a Monday morning
His silence will sit drooping
A Challice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
   Gho. Pitty me not, but lend thy serious hearing
The eares are senselesse that should giue vs hearing,
   Polon. I, or drinking, fencing, swearing,
The Canker Galls, the Infants of the Spring
  Fran. Not a Mouse stirring
   Ham. That Scull had a tongue in it, and could sing
Now for our selfe, and for this time of meeting
And sodainely contriue the meanes of meeting
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kinde of fighting,
And more aboue hath his soliciting,
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.
A broken voyce, and his whole Function suiting
Froward, not permanent; sweet not lasting
highly (not to speake it prophanely) that neyther hauing
And sure I am, two men there are not liuing,
Most generous, and free from all contriuing,
Reason? how infinite in faculty? in forme and mouing
When I had seene this hot loue on the wing,
If he steale ought the whil'st this Play is Playing,
  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying,
if I could see the Puppets dallying
when he needes what you haue glean'd, it is but squeezing
   Qu. Alas sweet Lady: what imports this Song?
Therefore I haue intreated him along
   Pol. This is too long
The Bird of Dawning singeth all night long:
   Ham. Very like, very like: staid it long?
   Ham. Giue me your pardon Sir, I'ue done you wrong,
   Qu. What haue I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tong,
Beleeue so much in him, that he is young,
vs not: let the gall'd iade winch: our withers are vnrung.
at http://promo.net/pg).
In going backe to Schoole in Wittenberg,
I prythee stay with vs, go not to Wittenberg
Project Gutenberg
Project Gutenberg
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
cd pub/docs/books/gutenberg
hart@pobox.com forwards to hart@prairienet.org and archive.org
     University" within the 60 days following each
And thus doe we of wisedome and of reach
   Ham. Hearke you Guildensterne, and you too: at each
And cleaue the generall eare with horrid speech:
Do not it selfe vnkennell in one speech,
come, a passionate speech
   Ophe. And hath giuen countenance to his speech,
Strengthen your patience in our last nights speech,
My Vertue or my Plague, be it either which,
need study a speech of some dosen or sixteene lines, which
Ile rent him to the quicke: If he but blench
I'ue seene my selfe, and seru'd against the French,
against the which he impon'd as I take it, sixe French
Claimes the conueyance of a promis'd March
If ought of woe, or wonder, cease your search
Appeares before them, and with sollemne march
And now no soyle nor cautell doth besmerch
  Laer. To cut his throat i'th' Church
And I with them the third Night kept the Watch,
(Marcellus and Barnardo) on their Watch
With Martiall stalke, hath he gone by our Watch
Why this same strict and most obseruant Watch,
Repugnant to command: vnequall match,
Out of his subiect: and we heere dispatch
I your Commission will forthwith dispatch,
  Qu. But looke where sadly the poore wretch
hath caught me in his clutch:
A basenesse to write faire; and laboured much
had spoke my Lines: Nor do not saw the Ayre too much
The Sun no sooner shall the Mountaines touch,
Without the sensible and true auouch
them shape, or time to acte them in. What should such
might be my Lord such a one, that prais'd my Lord such
as if I had neuer beene such
to set on some quantitie of barren Spectators to laugh
them. For there be of them, that will themselues laugh,
   Ham. I haue heard of your pratlings too wel enough.
The chariest Maid is Prodigall enough,
yesty collection, which carries them through & through
That swift as Quick-siluer, it courses through
Stoopes to his Bace, and with a hideous crash
Sir though I am not Spleenatiue, and rash,
And from her faire and vnpolluted flesh,
cannot so innocculate our old stocke, but we shall rellish
other Lords attendant with his Guard carrying Torches. Danish
a Flourish.
As loue betweene them, as the Palme should flourish,
And for your part Ophelia, I do wish
Like sweet Bels iangled out of tune, and harsh,
Wee'l put the matter to the present push:
   For. His quarry cries on hauocke. Oh proud death,
It may be death
He should the bearers put to sodaine death,
Vnder the Moone, can saue the thing from death,
Why thy Canoniz'd bones Hearsed in death,
(For which, they say, you Spirits oft walke in death)
But that the dread of something after death,
He neuer gaue command'ment for their death.
Oh wretched state! Oh bosome, blacke as death!
That I am guiltlesse of your Fathers death,
With pestilent Speeches of his Fathers death,
Which I haue told thee, of my Fathers death.
Or thinking by our late deere Brothers death,
  King. Though yet of Hamlet our deere Brothers death
Giues me superfluous death.
Had I but time (as this fell Sergeant death
To muddy death
Is by a forged processe of my death
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
   Qu. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
   Qu. He's fat, and scant of breath.
And for his death no winde of blame shall breath,
And breath of life: I haue no life to breath
The King shal drinke to Hamlets better breath,
   Ham. 'Tis ee'n so; the hand of little Imployment hath
That I shall liue and tell him to his teeth;
Then I to Hercules. Within a Moneth?
Alexander died: Alexander was buried: Alexander returneth
These Foyles haue all a length.
   Osr. Nay, in good faith, for mine ease in good faith:
   Mar. Nor I my Lord: in faith
   Laer. How came he dead? Ile not be Iuggel'd with.
Queene with
Tell him his prankes haue been too broad to beare with,
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
   Qu. 'Twere good she were spoken with,
Enter King, Queene, Laertes and Lords, with other Attendants with
   Play. I hope we haue reform'd that indifferently with
By what is fed on; and yet within a month?
both?
Giuing more light then heate; extinct in both,
both in reputation and profit was better both
I haue seene you both:
I cannot deeme of. I intreat you both,
Which are to claime, my vantage doth
Wards, and Dungeons; Denmarke being one o'th'
Fellowes as I do, crawling betweene Heauen and Earth.
Visit her face too roughly. Heauen and Earth
Extorted Treasure in the wombe of Earth,
The Cannons to the Heauens, the Heauen to Earth,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from Heauen to Earth,
  Rosin. As the indifferent Children of the earth
i'th' earth?
   Laer. Lay her i'th' earth,
This must be so. We pray you throw to earth
For hee himselfe is subiect to his Birth:
I would not, in plaine tearmes, from this time forth,
without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
Holding a weake supposall of our worth;
The Hand more instrumentall to the Mouth,
And in the Morne and liquid dew of Youth,
And from his mouth
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
Make Ossa like a wart. Nay, and thou'lt mouth,
Rankly abus'd: But know thou Noble youth,
That vnmatch'd Forme and Feature of blowne youth,
he is farre gone, farre gone: and truly in my youth,
What is betweene you, giue me vp the truth?
Your bait of falshood, takes this Cape of truth;
   Ham. And smelt so? Puh
So leuied as before, against the Poleak:
To be a preparation 'gainst the Poleak:
   King. I do beleeue you. Think what now you speak:
Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Or my deere Maiestie your Queene heere, think,
   Pol. I wold faine proue so. But what might you think?
Couch we a while, and mark
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.
  Ophe. Where is the beauteous Maiesty of Denmark
you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
  King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
Another thing that you should be aware of is that there are textual
errors, or if you disagree with my spelling choices please feel
to't like French Faulconers, flie at any thing we see: wee'l
how expresse and admirable? in Action, how like an Angel?
We would prefer to send you this information by email.
But I am Pigeon-Liuer'd, and lacke Gall
We do it wrong, being so Maiesticall
   Ophe. You must sing downe a-downe, and you call
  Ham. Of nothing: bring me to him, hide Fox, and all
And where th' offence is, let the great Axe fall.
To be fore-stalled ere we come to fall,
   Barn. Last night of all,
And neuer did the Cyclops hammers fall
Vnder the which he shall not choose but fall;
And let me wring your heart, for so I shall
But byrlady he must builde Churches then: or else shall
That you at such time seeing me, neuer shall
Knight shal vse his Foyle and Target: the Louer shall
   King. So you shall:
As ere my Conuersation coap'd withall
Then the maine voyce of Denmarke goes withall.
   Ham. Not a whit, we defie Augury; there's a speciall
And for your Rapier most especiall,
my Fortunes turne Turke with me; with two Prouinciall
buriall
Of Bell and Buriall
out of Christian Buriall
His meanes of death, his obscure buriall;
In addition to the notes below, and so you will *NOT* think all
cannot keepe counsell, they'l tell all
   Amb. The sight is dismall,
   Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all:
His Liberty is full of threats to all,
   Hor. My Lord, I came to see your Fathers Funerall
The better to beguile. This is for all:
Comedie, Historie, Pastorall:
Tragicall-Historicall: Tragicall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
Pastoricall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
But this most foule, strange, and vnnaturall
Let me be cruell, not vnnaturall,
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
Thus Conscience does make Cowards of vs all,
And so, without more circumstance at all,
(Vnlesse things mortall moue them not at all)
Or not at all.
   Pol. Madam, I sweare I vse no Art at all:
Looke where he goes euen now out at the Portall.
   Hor. If your minde dislike any thing, obey. I will forestall
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
in tryall
What feast is toward in thine eternall Cell.
Prompted to my Reuenge by Heauen, and Hell,
Bring with thee ayres from Heauen, or blasts from Hell,
O Shame! where is thy Blush? Rebellious Hell,
As if he had been loosed out of hell,
like a Camell
And beare it to the Chappell
With variable Obiects, shall expell
might they not stopp a Beere-barrell?
But the great Cannon to the Clowds shall tell,
   Other. Marry, now I can tell
   Other. Masse, I cannot tell.
Let me not burst in Ignorance; but tell
To hell Allegeance: Vowes, to the blackest diuell.
All may be well.
   Ham. This likes me well,
I haue much to tell thee, Farewell.
play the Foole no way, but in's owne house. Farewell
  Polon. Farewell:
   Laer. Farewell.
  Laer. My necessaries are imbark't; Farewell:
Thou wretched, rash, intruding foole farewell,
  Queene. Sweets, to the sweet farewell.
   Ham. Your loue, as mine to you: farewell.
   King. We doubt it nothing, heartily farewell.
I will requite your loues; so fare ye well:
The which he loued passing well
that I loue passing well
  Ham. I humbly thanke you: well, well, well
And for my meanes, Ile husband them so well,
make of them. To a Nunnery go, and quickly too. Farwell
   Laer. Farewell Ophelia, and remember well
I will bestow him, and will answer well
   King. It likes vs well:
Our indiscretion sometimes serues vs well,
My Fathers Spirit in Armes? All is not well:
   Ham. Thou prai'st not well,
   Polon. And in part him, but you may say not well;
   Ham. That's two of his weapons; but well
   Ham. I am glad to see you well:
   Polon. God buy you; fare you well
   Qu. Did he receiue you well?
   Polon. It is back'd like a Weazell
   Ham. Me thinkes it is like a Weazell
will
Walkes o're the dew of yon high Easterne Hill,
As Reason panders Will
   King. Let him demand his fill
New lighted on a heauen-kissing hill:
We must with all our Maiesty and Skill
of hermony, I haue not the skill
that this goodly frame the Earth, seemes to me a sterrill
Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
A silence in the Heauens, the Racke stand still,
Let it bee treble in your silence still:
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd euill,
In further euill
   Ham. I will
To shew vs so much Gentrie, and good will,
No Traueller returnes, Puzels the will,
   Hor. What is't my Lord? we will
   Al. We will, we will
Rough-hew them how we will
Though inclination be as sharpe as will:
Indentures? the very Conueyances of his Lands will
   Hor. I warrant you it will
Make choice of whom your wisest Friends you will,
plaid on, then a Pipe? Call me what Instrument you will,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will:
With iuyce of cursed Hebenon in a Violl,
is a sore Decayer of your horson dead body. Heres a Scull
Flaggon of Renish on my head once. This same Scull
That we are made of stuffe, so flat, and dull,
Of vnimproued Mettle, hot and full,
my Mother had not borne me. I am very prowd, reuengefull,
   Pol. Good Madam stay awhile, I will be faithfull.
ouer-done, or come tardie off, though it make the vnskilfull
  Ham. Oh wonderfull!
Our Soueraigne Processe, which imports at full
As we haue warrantie, her death was doubtfull,
Go, Farewell. Or if thou wilt needs Marry, marry a fool:
  Pol. I did enact Iulius Caesar, I was kill'd i'th' Capitol:
   Ham. Good Madam
   Ham. I dare not drinke yet Madam,
Obey you Madam
Now falles on Priam.
Which as her winkes, and nods, and gestures yeeld them,
And not where I had arm'd them
You must translate; Tis fit we vnderstand them.
They were giuen me by Claudio, he receiu'd them
deserue, the more merit is in your bountie. Take them
   King. Laertes you shall heare them:
I pray you now, receiue them
and Guildensterne, hold their course for England. Of them
But our cold Maids doe Dead Mens Fingers call them:
Doe you beleeue his tenders, as you call them?
Will you two helpe to hasten them?
   King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
To him from whom you brought them.
Scene indiuidible: or Poem
   Ham. What are they Children? Who maintains 'em?
And from his Mother Clossets hath he drag'd him.
We ore-wrought on the way: of these we told him,
(For so this side of our knowne world esteem'd him)
And that he cals for drinke; Ile haue prepar'd him
No more to vndertake it; I will worke him
Is the great loue the generall gender beare him,
  Qu. For loue of God forbeare him
That is not Passions Slaue, and I will weare him
This night to play before him
   Ophe. O heauenly Powers, restore him
   Hor. Heauen secure him
  Hora. I did verie well note him.
I will leaue him,
And will not let beleefe take hold of him
  Hor. A peece of him
Take you as 'twere some distant knowledge of him,
   Ham. I sir, what of him?
To shew his Greefes: let her be round with him,
Pray you be round with him
That being of so young dayes brought vp with him:
Your sodaine comming ore to play with him;
We cannot get from him
That we with wisest sorrow thinke on him,
And thus awhile the fit will worke on him:
Must I remember: why she would hang on him,
You must not put another scandall on him,
  Kin. I pray you good Horatio wait vpon him,
Addicted so and so; and there put on him
Yet must not we put the strong Law on him:
This Spirit dumbe to vs, will speake to him:
Looke you lay home to him,
Pleasant and helpfull to him.
   Pol. At such a time Ile loose my Daughter to him,
To our most valiant Brother. So much for him.
Speake lowdly for him.
   Reynol. My Lord that would dishonour him
   1.Player. Anon he findes him,
Let his Queene Mother all alone intreat him
Denmarke, and those that would make mowes at him
More then his Fathers death, that thus hath put him
to signifie this to his Doctor: for for me to put him
   Mar. Nay, let's follow him.
   Qu. But not by him
   Mar. Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him
etext possible.  My email address for right now are haradda@aol.com
is one of our major sites, please email hart@pobox.com,
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
Scanner's Notes: What this is and isn't.  This was taken from
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
          or other equivalent proprietary form).
conuocation of wormes are e'ne at him. Your worm
DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
Th' vnnerued Father fals. Then senselesse Illium,
in
Holds such an enmity with bloud of Man,
  Rosin. To thinke, my Lord, if you delight not in Man,
a copy of Shakespeare's first folio and it is as close as I can
very high place in the "canon" of Shakespeare.  My father read an
from Michael Hart's salary at Carnegie-Mellon University, and an
iudgement in such matters, cried in the top of mine) an
have mentioned in other times and places, many "scholars" have an
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
the accent of Christians, nor the gate of Christian, Pagan,
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
And like the kinde Life-rend'ring Politician,
drowne or hang themselues, more then their euen Christian.
straight, the Crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian
To giue the world assurance of a man.
   Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man
   Ham. Horatio, thou art eene as iust a man
The vnseene good old man
Since not th' exterior, nor the inward man
For the Apparell oft proclaimes the man.
   Ham. Gods bodykins man, better. Vse euerie man
Speake man
   Other. Was he a Gentleman?
  Rosin. Most like a Gentleman
But pardon't as you are a Gentleman.
At friend, or so, and Gentleman
He closes with you thus. I know the Gentleman,
Like a good Childe, and a true Gentleman.
Good sir, or so, or friend, or Gentleman.
gain-giuing as would perhaps trouble a woman
Let me not thinke on't: Frailty, thy name is woman.
Oh most pernicious woman!
  Kin. A Norman
To sound what stop she please. Giue me that man,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Exit Fran.
an Act: and an Act hath three branches. It is an
   Mar. Shall I strike at it with my Partizan?
Fie on't? Oh fie, fie, 'tis an vnweeded Garden
   1.Play. But who, O who, had seen the inobled Queen
Exit King & Queen.
be differences (other than what I have mentioned above) between
then proofing the printed copy and correcting the type and then
your death, you were better haue a bad Epitaph, then
   King. Will you know them then
   Ham. What woman then?
But if the Gods themselues did see her then,
Oh heauie burthen!
Be you and I behinde an Arras then,
dull Asse will not mend his pace with beating; and when
Byrlady your Ladiship is neerer Heauen then when
   Ophe. Pray you let's haue no words of this: but when
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken,
  Queene. Amen.
thought some of Natures Iouerney-men had made men,
To heare him so inclin'd. Good Gentlemen,
Still am I cal'd? Vnhand me Gentlemen:
   Hor. Two nights together, had these Gentlemen
Vpon the witnesse of these Gentlemen,
   Ham. Rest, rest perturbed Spirit: so Gentlemen,
Come hither Gentlemen,
Come, my Spade; there is no ancient Gentlemen,
  Pol. Well be with you Gentlemen
the onely men
Or lose your Heart; or your chast Treasure open
On plots, and errors happen
man: I am most dreadfully attended; but in the beaten
And how his Audit stands, who knowes, saue Heauen:
   Polon. With what, in the name of Heauen?
Though Lewdnesse court it in a shape of Heauen:
And boule the round Naue downe the hill of Heauen,
My Lord, with all the vowes of Heauen
Would haue made milche the Burning eyes of Heauen,
Had made his course t' illume that part of Heauen
   Ham. Oh Heauen!
Infects vnseene. Confesse your selfe to Heauen,
And now Ile doo't, and so he goes to Heauen,
It shewes a will most incorrect to Heauen,
Take it to heart? Fye, 'tis a fault to Heauen,
Shew me the steepe and thorny way to Heauen;
As oft as any passion vnder Heauen,
Then trip him, that his heeles may kicke at Heauen,
   Hor. Not I, my Lord, by Heauen
Vnmixt with baser matter; yes yes, by Heauen:
That he might not beteene the windes of heauen
Would I had met my dearest foe in heauen,
Against thy Mother ought; leaue her to heauen,
Oh my offence is ranke, it smels to heauen,
But neerer the offence: to beare all smooth, and euen,
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
   Ham. Vp from my Cabin
   Clo. How can that be, vnlesse she drowned her selfe in
What a piece of worke is a man! how Noble in
   Hor. Let them come in,
A noise within. Let her come in.
In ill breeding minds. Let her come in.
   All. No, let's come in
best seruice in the end. He keepes them like an Ape in
To his Confine. And of the truth heerein,
are presented herein:
Now the King drinkes to Hamlet. Come, begin,
And as the world were now but to begin,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
Of entrance to a quarrell: but being in
This bodilesse Creation extasie is very cunning in
password: your@login
A Noise within.
abbreviations as I have come across them.  Everything within
Whil'st ranke Corruption mining all within,
March afarre off, and shout within.
   King. Thy selfe do grace to them, and bring them in.
vnlesse the Poet and the Player went to Cuffes in
  Rosin. Euen those you were wont to take delight in
not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in
time when they were out of "v"'s. . .possibly having used "vv" in
   King. Our Sonne shall win
Such was the very Armour he had on,
  Qu. Alacke I had forgot: 'Tis so concluded on
And bow them to your gracious leaue and pardon
   Laer. Say you so? Come on.
Giue vs the Foyles: Come on
And be not from his reason falne thereon;
Giue him a further edge, and driue his purpose on
hands, come: The appurtenance of Welcome, is Fashion
In honourable fashion
  Ham. Dost thou thinke Alexander lookt o'this fashion
Files by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]
But in the grosse and scope of my Opinion,
being a good kissing Carrion-
  Rosin. To visit you my Lord, no other occasion
Thence to a Lightnesse, and by this declension
to see a robustious Pery-wig-pated Fellow, teare a Passion
But in a Fixion, in a dreame of Passion,
Into a Towring passion
Had he the Motiue and the Cue for passion
owne Succession
When we would bring him on to some Confession
Adams Profession
Example FTP session:
Messe; 'tis a Chowgh; but as I saw spacious in the possession
Get from him why he puts on this Confusion:
Ile crosse it, though it blast me. Stay Illusion:
And Iemme of all our Nation
This present Obiect made probation
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
owne. Besides, to be demanded of a Spundge, what replication
That Flesh is heyre too? 'Tis a consummation
  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination
I haue in quicke determination
To shew my duty in your Coronation,
   Ham. I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
admiration?
her into amazement, and admiration
   Ghost. Do not forget: this Visitation
No Noble rite, nor formall ostentation,
And they in France of the best ranck and station,
wilfully seekes her owne saluation?
of the late Innouation?
If you find any scanning errors, out and out typos, punctuation
   Mar. Looke with what courteous action
And keepe within the reare of your Affection;
Who dipping all his Faults in their affection,
And could of men distinguish, her election
   Guild. The Queene your Mother, in most great affliction
and good discretion
According to the Phrase and the Addition,
of these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.
Why should we in our peeuish Opposition
So horridly to shake our disposition,
   Guild. But with much forcing of his disposition
and indeed, it goes so heauenly with my disposition;
That might your nature honour, and exception
the Question
  Ham. To be, or not to be, that is the Question:
too, though in the meane time, some necessary Question
But since so iumpe vpon this bloodie question,
By this encompassement and drift of question,
That I must call in question
could hee digge without Armes? Ile put another question
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
And thus the Natiue hew of Resolution
Complexion
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
Exit Polon.
For, what we know must be, and is as common
   Ham. I Madam, it is common
And why such dayly Cast of Brazon Cannon
To put an Anticke disposition on:)
his weapon
   Ham. What's his weapon?
   Hor. Indeed my Lord, it followed hard vpon
  Ham. Does it not, thinkst thee, stand me now vpon
it bounces from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .
Now see that Noble, and most Soueraigne Reason,
(O Heauen! A beast that wants discourse of Reason
Which might depriue your Soueraignty of Reason,
  All. Treason, Treason
Larded with many seuerall sorts of reason;
shall wee to th' Court: for, by my fey I cannot reason?
   Hor. Indeed I heard it not: then it drawes neere the season,
  Ham. Denmark's a Prison
a prison
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
don't want Project Gutenberg to be so dependent on one person.
Let him go Gertrude: Do not feare our person:
  Osr. I meane my Lord, the opposition of your person
   Ham. If it assume my noble Fathers person,
That often Madnesse hits on,
Cap, we are not the very Button
For he was likely, had he beene put on
   For. Go safely on.
Ho Guildenstern:
     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.
  Ham. Not so my Lord, I am too much i'th' Sun
But orderly to end, where I begun,
How ere my happes, my ioyes were ne're begun.
Our Willes and Fates do so contrary run,
set the Table on a Rore? No one now to mock your own
When he is fit and season'd for his passage? No.
   Laer. No
   Bar. 'Tis now strook twelue, get thee to bed Francisco
   Qu. What shall I do?
Enter Polonius, and Reynoldo.
   Polon. You shall doe maruels wisely: good Reynoldo,
  Polon. Giue him his money, and these notes Reynoldo
And in part him. Doe you marke this Reynoldo?
To let them know both what we meane to do,
My operant Powers my Functions leaue to do:
My sterne effects: then what I haue to do,
  Mar. Holla Barnardo
   Fran. Barnardo?
  Ham. Not this by no meanes that I bid you do:
This Play is the Image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago
murther of Gonzago?
Madnesse in great Ones, must not vnwatch'd go.
Words without thoughts, neuer to Heauen go.
I do beseech you giue him leaue to go
But let that go
Which bewept to the graue did not go,
Why to a publike count I might not go,
  Ham. Nothing but to shew you how a King may go
as they are. To a Nunnery, go.
   Ham. Saw? Who?
  Ham. Betweene who?
***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
  Ham. What hoa, Horatio?
Enter Queene and Horatio.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio
Their grand Commission, where I found Horatio,
Then to say one: but I am very sorry good Horatio,
   Ham. To what base vses we may returne Horatio.
   Ham. O I dye Horatio:
  Ham. In my minds eye (Horatio)
And what make you from Wittenberg Horatio?
There are more things in Heauen and Earth, Horatio,
   Ham. Let me see. Alas poore Yorick, I knew him Horatio,
Enter Horatio.
Manet Hamlet & Horatio.
   Barn. Lookes it not like the King? Marke it Horatio
   Mar. Question it Horatio
   Mar. Thou art a Scholler; speake to it Horatio
Ere I had euer seene that day Horatio.
be not now; yet it will come; the readinesse is all, since no
this Quintessence of Dust? Man delights not me; no,
   Ham. How if I answere no?
If't be th' affliction of his loue, or no.
were sent for or no
   Ham. His Beard was grisly? no
How are they escorted? Will they pursue the Quality no
   Ham. Nor the Soales of her Shoo?
Which haue solicited. The rest is silence. O, o, o, o.
  Rosin. I that they do my Lord. Hercules & his load too
   Ham. The point envenom'd too,
   Hor. Let him blesse thee too
  Barn. It would be spoke too
  Other. Go too
   Polon. I, fashion you may call it, go too, go too
Importing Denmarks health, and Englands too,
  Hor. I my Lord, and of Calue-skinnes too
Warlicke appointment gaue vs Chace. Finding our selues too
  King. Sweet Gertrude leaue vs too,
   King. Faith I must leaue thee Loue, and shortly too:
     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
  Other. Why 'tis found so
   King. It shall be so:
   Laer. Let this be so:
Who does it then? His Madnesse? If't be so,
   Kin. If it be so Laertes, as how should it be so:
As he would draw it. Long staid he so,
  Hor. E'ene so
boorded them: On the instant they got cleare of our Shippe, so
   Ophe. Indeed my Lord, you made me beleeue so
to get involved with Project Gutenberg.  You could also
   Osr. Shall I redeliuer you ee'n so?
Such deere concernings hide, Who would do so,
   Hor. 'Twere to consider: to curiously to consider so
And as my Loue is siz'd, my Feare is so
That I haue possitiuely said, 'tis so,
the Ayre promise-cramm'd, you cannot feed Capons so
I do repent: but heauen hath pleas'd it so,
If damned Custome haue not braz'd it so,
  Ham. No by the Rood, not so:
   Ophel. No more but so
And let him know so
   Polon. I will say so.
to say so
   Ham. I would not haue your Enemy say so;
more on a wider selection of characters than they had to.
          author, and additional characters may be used to
great folke should haue countenance in this world to
   Ham. Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
Spade; heere's fine Reuolution, if wee had the tricke to
He hath one twelue for mine, and that would come to
For these and other matters, please mail to:
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.
Songs? Your flashes of Merriment that were wont to
O deere Ophelia, I am ill at these Numbers: I haue not Art to
Thy face is valiant since I saw thee last: Com'st thou to
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
my Mother lookes, and my Father dyed within's two
But two months dead: Nay, not so much; not two,
  Ham. Ladie, shall I lye in your Lap?
   Ham. I meane, my Head vpon your Lap?
married already, all but one shall liue, the rest shall keep
  Hor. Haile to your Lordship
   Osr. I commend my duty to your Lordship
  Ophe. What meanes your Lordship?
*****This file should be named 2265.txt or 2265.zip******
Seeming to feele his blow, with flaming top
Vnpegge the Basket on the houses top:
   Ham. As th'art a man, giue me the Cup.
Here's to thy health. Giue him the cup,
but Gardiners, Ditchers and Graue-makers; they hold vp
You mainly were stirr'd vp?
Or pardon'd being downe? Then Ile looke vp,
And Mermaid-like, a while they bore her vp,
  Hor. O yes, my Lord, he wore his Beauer vp
A blanket in th' Alarum of feare caught vp.
or:
total should reach over 200 billion Etexts given away this year.
Be thou familiar; but by no meanes vulgar:
Exit Laer.
Will you doe this, keepe close within your Chamber,
  Ophe. My Lord, as I was sowing in my Chamber,
   Ham. I beseech you remember
Please take a look at the important information in this header.
Why may not Imagination trace the Noble dust of Alexander,
   Hora. Most like: It harrowes me with fear & wonder
As hush as death: Anon the dreadfull Thunder
   King. Pluck them asunder
Enter one with a Recorder.
And but that great Command, o're-swaies the order,
And (as I thinke) they haue already order
   Ophe. They bore him bare fac'd on the Beer,
Whether 'tis Nobler in the minde to suffer
Cousen Hamlet, you know the wager
  Osr. Rapier and dagger
a Progresse through the guts of a Begger
Thou find'st to be too busie, is some danger.
That we can let our Beard be shooke with danger,
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow then in anger
Enter a Messenger.
Enter a Messenger.
   Ham. In heauen, send thither to see. If your Messenger
Exit Messenger
That they are not a Pipe for Fortunes finger.
   All. Longer, longer
  Ham. Excellent, excellent well: y'are a Fishmonger
yet he knew me not at first; he said I was a Fishmonger:
   Ham. Your wisedome should shew it selfe more richer,
Haue burst their cerments, why the Sepulcher
This must not be: and then, I Precepts gaue her,
  Qu. I will not speake with her
Shardes, Flints, and Peebles, should be throwne on her:
   Qu. Came this from Hamlet to her
To sing sage Requiem, and such rest to her
Make vp my summe. What wilt thou do for her?
kneeles, and makes shew of Protestation vnto him. He takes her
But you must know, your Father lost a Father,
then yours. You are welcome: but my Vnckle Father,
   King. Conceit vpon her Father
Beene thus encountred. A figure like your Father,
  Kin. Not that I thinke you did not loue your Father,
  Hor. My Lord, the King your Father
To giue these mourning duties to your Father:
Requit him for your Father
wayes to a Nunnery. Where's your Father?
The Apparition comes. I knew your Father:
Then is the Throne of Denmarke to thy Father.
My Fathers Brother: but no more like my Father,
Oh thou vilde King, giue me my Father
Play something like the murder of my Father,
   Ham. The King my Father?
Most throughly for my Father
   Laer. Where's my Father?
My father, me thinkes I see my father
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
The Frenchman gaue you, bring you in fine together,
Nay, come let's goe together.
God willing shall not lacke: let vs goe in together,
Go to your rest, at night wee'l Feast together.
   Ham. No faith, not a iot. But to follow him thether
  Clo. For none neither
Why do's the Drumme come hither?
that she sends you to Prison hither?
For we haue closely sent for Hamlet hither,
Goose-quils, and dare scarse come thither
'Tis meete that some more audience then a Mother,
  Ham. A bloody deed, almost as bad good Mother,
'Tis not alone my Inky Cloake (good Mother)
England. Farewell deere Mother
Of my true Mother
   Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our Mother.
And yet to me they are strong. The Queen his Mother,
Good night Mother.
He that hath kil'd my King, and whor'd my Mother,
But would you were not so. You are my Mother
Hiperion to a Satyre: so louing to my Mother,
Would quake to looke on. Soft now, to my Mother:
And hurt my Mother
Follow my Mother.
   Ham. So much for this Sir; now let me see the other,
Folded the Writ vp in forme of the other,
medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project").  Among other
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
   Ham. within. Mother, mother, mother
Let me see another
God has giuen you one pace, and you make your selfe another:
   Ham. Why he, more then another?
That hath a stomacke in't: which is no other
As kill a King, and marrie with his Brother
As watchmen to my heart: but good my Brother
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
Of those effects for which I did the Murther.
Can serue my turne? Forgiue me my foule Murther:
  Gho. Reuenge his foule and most vnnaturall Murther
   Ham. Murther?
  Ham. Where wilt thou lead me? speak; Ile go no further
May giue his saying deed: which is no further,
   King. How may we try it further?
Doubt Truth to be a Lier,
Till the last Trumpet. For charitable praier,
Kibe. How long hast thou been a Graue-maker?
more Choller
  Guild. No my Lord, rather with choller
Shakespeare did not actually write the play in this manner. . . .
  Ham. I trulie: for the power of Beautie, will sooner
   Laer. Oh terrible woer,
   Rosin. Good my Lord, what is your cause of distemper?
The head and sourse of all your Sonnes distemper
Vpon the heate and flame of thy distemper
  Ham. At Supper
That they doe know my sonne: Come you more neerer
Winner and Looser
To access Project Gutenberg etexts, use any Web browser
he will keepe out water a great while. And your water,
heere stands the man; good: If the man goe to this water
after.
the Abstracts and breefe Chronicles of the time. After
You must not take for fire. For this time Daughter,
Giues the tongue vowes: these blazes, Daughter,
   Pol. Still on my Daughter
  Polon. If you call me Iephta my Lord, I haue a daughter
Haue you a daughter?
the false Steward that stole his masters daughter
Betweene him, and my daughter.
   Pol. How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter:
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Enter.
Within the Center
or a Carpenter?
Mason, the Shipwright, or the Carpenter?
Sir, this same Scull sir, was Yoricks Scull, the Kings Iester
Feare it Ophelia, feare it my deare Sister,
That I must be their Scourge and Minister.
dumbe, yet are they much too light for the bore of the Matter.
   Ham. Nay, do not thinke I flatter:
To heare, and see the matter
Sir, this is the matter
Let them guard the doore. What is the matter?
How now Ophelia, what's the matter?
  Ham. Now Mother, what's the matter?
   Laer. This nothings more then matter
I lou'd you euer; but it is no matter:
my heart: but it is no matter
   Say. Hee shall Sir, and't please him. There's a Letter
The Letter.
Reads the Letter.
but yet I could accuse me of such things, that it were better
Mac users, do NOT point and click, typing works better.
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
To do obsequious Sorrow. But to perseuer
And your poore Seruant euer
Oh Heart, loose not thy Nature; let not euer
That I haue longed long to re-deliuer.
With an attent eare; till I may deliuer
Truly deliuer
   Other. Nay but heare you Goodman Deluer
We need your donations more than ever!
     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
you are welcome to Elsonower?
way of friendship, What make you at Elsonower?
Oh wicked Wit, and Gifts, that haue the power
May be the Diuell, and the Diuel hath power
Giuing to you no further personall power
In generall Synod take away her power:
  Mar. 'Tis gone, and will not answer
end both at the first and now, was and is, to hold as 'twer
My fault is past. But oh, what forme of Prayer
as many of your Players do, I had as liue the Town-Cryer
   Ham. With drinke Sir?
   Laer. You mocke me Sir
  Clo. Mine Sir:
  Clo. For no man Sir
   Ham. I am very glad to see you: good euen Sir.
vs, Sir
this Sir?
Very well said. Looke you Sir,
   Ham. Heare you Sir:
blesse you Sir.
  Say. God blesse you Sir
  Rosin. God saue you Sir
do them wrong, to make them exclaim against their
   Guild. The King, sir
   Ham. Come on sir
   Laer. Come on sir.
of Players sir
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
   Ham. Oh good Horatio, Ile take the Ghosts word for
And all we waile for
   Ham. I see a Cherube that see's him: but come, for
play your Clownes, speake no more then is set downe for
   Clo. It must be Se offendendo, it cannot bee else: for
   Rosin. Happily he's the second time come to them: for
That thus he suffers for
Pray loue remember: and there is Paconcies, that's for
   Ham. What man dost thou digge it for?
   Guil. My Lord, we were sent for
Next your Sonne gone, and he most violent Author
Mother goodnight. Indeede this Counsellor
which your modesties haue not craft enough to color,
Enter Saylor.
   Pol. Vpon mine Honor
Till by some elder Masters of knowne Honor,
To my Reuenge. But in my termes of Honor
   Player. I warrant your Honor
Which he stood seiz'd on, to the Conqueror:
Web browser to visit a Project Gutenberg mirror (mirror
Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Actor
Executive Director
When all other email fails. . .try our Executive Director:
to Yaughan, fetch me a stoupe of Liquor.
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
Where be your Iibes now? Your Gambals? Your
Meane time we thanke you, for your well-tooke Labour.
Of his behauiour
That shew of such an exercise may colour
And since so Neighbour'd to his youth, and humour,
But what is your affaire in Elsenour?
As it behoues my Daughter, and your Honour.
   All. Our duty to your Honour.
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
of her fauour?
finde him not there, seeke him i'th other place your
with your finger and thumbe, giue it breath with your
High and Mighty, you shall know I am set naked on your
  Mes. Letters my Lord from Hamlet, This to your
   Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcom to Elsonower: your
  Clo. Cudgell thy braines no more about it; for your
not Honestie to haue it thus set downe: For you your
  Rosin. Without my Lord, guarded to know your
  Clo. 'Twill not be seene in him, there the men are as
     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
With windlesses, and with assaies of Bias,
that our last King Hamlet o'recame Fortinbras
Tell him that by his license, Fortinbras
To the Inheritance of Fortinbras,
To Norway, Vncle of young Fortinbras,
His fell to Hamlet. Now sir, young Fortinbras,
Now followes, that you know young Fortinbras,
if they should grow themselues to common Players (as
  Ophe. Well, God dil'd you. They say the Owle was
for you Sir: It comes from th' Ambassadours that was
Whose doe you thinke it was?
  Clo. A whoreson mad Fellowes it was;
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
Himselfe, the Primrose path of dalliance treads,
There on the pendant boughes, her Coronet weeds
Do not for euer with thy veyled lids
It is our tricke, Nature her custome holds,
Vnite comutuall, in most sacred Bands
And termes Compulsatiue, those foresaid Lands
Importing the surrender of those Lands
Did forfeite (with his life) all those his Lands
   Ham. So you mistake Husbands.
Since loue our hearts, and Hymen did our hands
   Rosin. Niggard of question, but of our demands
As low as to the Fiends
  Ham. By and by, is easily said. Leaue me Friends:
A worthy Pioner, once more remoue good friends
O'remaster't as you may. And now good friends,
And thus I know his father and his friends,
Come Gertrude, wee'l call vp our wisest friends,
Carue for himselfe; for, on his choyce depends
  King. Well, we shall sift him. Welcome good Frends:
There's a Diuinity that shapes our ends,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bonds,
Abuses me to damne me. Ile haue grounds
And passion in the Gods
Out, out, thou Strumpet-Fortune, all you Gods,
  Laer. Do you see this, you Gods?
A man that Fortunes buffets, and Rewards
longer then they can sing? Will they not say afterwards
Lords.
Ile wipe away all triuiall fond Records,
Must (like a Whore) vnpacke my heart with words,
As I understand it, the printers often ran out of certain words
More then in words?
  Ham. Words, words, words
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds,
Keepes on his wonder, keepes himselfe in clouds,
In mincing with his Sword her Husbands limbes,
Like to a murdering Peece in many places,
might be the Pate of a Polititian which this Asse o're Offices:
time a great buyer of Land, with his Statutes, his Recognizances,
But since he is better'd, we haue therefore oddes
And do not spred the Compost on the Weedes,
   Rosin. Faith there ha's bene much to do on both sides:
   Ham. What is he, whose griefes
(Three Pages)
   Ham. What call you the Carriages?
First Folio editions' best pages.
For like the Hecticke in my blood he rages,
Oh this is Counter you false Danish Dogges.
   Ham. 'Tis as easie as lying: gouerne these Ventiges
. . .in great detail. . .and determined from the various changes,
  Ham. A King of shreds and patches.
Your Maiestie, and wee that haue free soules, it touches
  King. There's matters in these sighes.
and your leane Begger is but variable seruice to dishes,
And tediousnesse, the limbes and outward flourishes,
Out of his Lunacies
Coach: Goodnight Ladies: Goodnight sweet Ladies:
Ieering? Quite chopfalne? Now get you to my Ladies
Are heere arriued. Giue order that these bodies
Though all the earth orewhelm them to mens eies.
The great man downe, you marke his fauourites flies,
The poore aduanc'd, makes Friends of Enemies:
   Laer. None but his Enemies
Some little time: so by your Companies
When sorrowes comes, they come not single spies,
Is this the fine of his Fines, and the recouery of his Recoueries,
his Fines, his double Vouchers, his Recoueries:
And stand a Comma 'tweene their amities,
And he beseech'd me to intreate your Maiesties
   Rosin. Both your Maiesties
His further gate heerein. In that the Leuies,
That not your trespasse, but my madnesse speakes:
The very soule, and sweete Religion makes
Vertue it selfe scapes not calumnious stroakes,
That patient merit of the vnworthy takes,
That I in forgery of shapes and trickes,
The Heart-ake, and the thousand Naturall shockes
As from the body of Contraction pluckes
Olde Grandsire Priam seekes
With this affaire along, for all our Thankes.
Your Visitation shall receiue such thankes
   Ham. Begger that I am, I am euen poore in thankes;
Where should we haue our thankes?
  Qu. The Lady protests to much me thinkes
sent for; and there is a kinde confession in your lookes;
Before mine Vnkle. Ile obserue his lookes,
Conceit in weakest bodies, strongest workes.
Did coldly furnish forth the Marriage Tables;
Or to take Armes against a Sea of troubles,
Keepes wassels and the swaggering vpspring reeles,
dir [to see files]
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
Rebellious to his Arme, lyes where it falles
Are mortiz'd and adioyn'd: which when it falles,
And in his brainish apprehension killes
   Ham. These tedious old fooles
Of Crow-flowers, Nettles, Daysies, and long Purples,
As to peace-parted Soules
With thoughts beyond thee; reaches of our Soules,
Foyles,
I haue bad dreames
When I to sulphurous and tormenting Flames
   Ham. Seemes Madam? Nay, it is: I know not Seemes:
Hauing euer seene. In the prenominate crimes,
man ha's ought of what he leaues. What is't to leaue betimes?
For in the fatnesse of this pursie times,
  Pol. You know sometimes
   Laer. That drop of blood, that calmes
'Tis dangerous, when the baser nature comes
Some sayes, that euer 'gainst that Season comes
I stay too long; but here my Father comes:
  Hor. Looke my Lord, it comes
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose Sable Armes
  Clo. He was the first that euer bore Armes
   La. To his good Friends, thus wide Ile ope my Armes:
Till I haue caught her once more in mine armes:
A Sister driuen into desperate tearmes,
   Ham. Why ee'n so: and now my Lady Wormes,
meanes
Weigh what conuenience both of time and meanes
As checking at his Voyage, and that he meanes
   Rosin. I thinke their Inhibition comes by the meanes
   Hor. No, by no meanes
  Ham. Marry this is Miching Malicho, that meanes
   Ham. Being thus benetted round with Villaines,
Mad let vs grant him then: and now remaines
Braines
Ere I could make a Prologue to my braines,
   For. Let foure Captaines
   Ham. A goodly one, in which there are many Confines,
About her lanke and all ore-teamed Loines,
   Ham. Is not Parchment made of Sheep-skinnes?
With blood of Fathers, Mothers, Daughters, Sonnes,
No Trophee, Sword, nor Hatchment o're his bones,
If thou canst mutine in a Matrons bones,
His forme and cause conioyn'd, preaching to stones,
The insolence of Office, and the Spurnes
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
   Guild. Happy, in that we are not ouer-happy: on Fortunes
Enter two Clownes.
and drowne himselfe; it is will he nill he, he goes;
Sleepes
Popt in betweene th' election and my hopes,
Looke you, these are the stoppes
Ere yet the salt of most vnrighteous Teares
These words like Daggers enter in mine eares.
  Hor. She speakes much of her Father; saies she heares
Who Impotent and Bedrid, scarsely heares
And let vs once againe assaile your eares,
Powres the poyson in his eares.
That I haue? He would drowne the Stage with teares,
heere, man and Boy thirty yeares
  Ham. On him, on him: look you how pale he glares,
Make thy two eyes like Starres, start from their Spheres,
  Volt. Most faire returne of Greetings, and Desires.
Houres
For she may strew dangerous coniectures
With true-loue showres
   Ophe. The King rises
   Guil. Heauens make our presence and our practises
   King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes
it might be Hangers till then; but on sixe Barbary Horses
   Osr. The sir King ha's wag'd with him six Barbary horses,
And let him for a paire of reechie kisses,
shewes a most pittifull Ambition in the Foole that vses
Why you proceeded not against these feates,
I should haue fatted all the Region Kites
Yet heere she is allowed her Virgin Rites,
My Tongue and Soule in this be Hypocrites.
Of mighty opposites
for a more complete list of our various sites.
Executive Director's Notes:
  King. Oh he is mad Laertes,
Enter King and Laertes.
So fast they'l follow: your Sister's drown'd Laertes
   King. Good Laertes:
Reuenge should haue no bounds: but good Laertes
   Qu. Calmely good Laertes
Acts little of his will. Tell me Laertes,
   King. What is the cause Laertes,
What would'st thou haue Laertes?
And loose your voyce. What would'st thou beg Laertes,
And when he's not himselfe, do's wrong Laertes,
Noise within. Enter Laertes.
You told vs of some suite. What is't Laertes?
  Osr. How is't Laertes?
But meere implorators of vnholy Sutes,
Shark'd vp a List of Landlesse Resolutes,
These profound heaues
in that. I will speake to this fellow: whose Graue's
Into the Madnesse whereon now he raues,
heere lies the point; If I drowne my selfe wittingly, it argues
Together with remembrance of our selues.
  Qu. No, nothing but our selues
After the thing it loues
Of Hamlets wildenesse: so shall I hope your Vertues
Hath op'd his ponderous and Marble iawes,
   King. Thou still hast bin the father of good Newes
How now? What Newes?
she is a Strumpet. What's the newes?
That suck'd the Honie of his Musicke Vowes:
and out-stretcht Heroes the Beggers Shadowes:
   Clo. I like thy wit well in good faith, the Gallowes
built stronger then the Church: Argall, the Gallowes
This was your Husband. Looke you now what followes.
This presence knowes,
   Mar. Good now sit downe, & tell me he that knowes
Heere's a Napkin, rub thy browes,
Conuert his Gyues to Graces. So that my Arrowes
And makes a blister there. Makes marriage vowes
In thewes and Bulke: but as his Temple waxes,
Dyes
Dyes.
King Dyes.
wayes
This Physicke but prolongs thy sickly dayes.
As Hell, whereto it goes. My Mother stayes,
Looke too't, I charge you; come your wayes
On Fortinbras, which he (in breefe) obeyes,
Had left the flushing of her gauled eyes,
By their opprest and feare-surprized eyes,
Of mine owne eyes
Who like not in their iudgement, but their eyes:
He seem'd to finde his way without his eyes,
And batten on this Moore? Ha? Haue you eyes?
Blasting his wholsom breath. Haue you eyes?
Th' extrauagant, and erring Spirit, hyes
There is no shuffling, there the Action lyes
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
   Ham. That's a faire thought to ly betweene Maids legs
Sings.
be Lord of Beasts, and his Crib shall stand at the Kings
Richer then that, which foure successiue Kings
Of your precedent Lord. A vice of Kings,
To whose huge Spoakes, ten thousand lesser things
And leads the will to desperate Vndertakings,
for signing his name with several different spellings.
Wee'l make a solemne wager on your commings,
Oh this is the poyson of deepe greefe, it springs
Saue me; and houer o're me with your wings
If with too credent eare you list his Songs;
peace: the Clowne shall make those laugh whose lungs
   Ham. Then are our Beggers bodies; and our Monarchs
for Ile haue a suite of Sables. Oh Heauens! dye two moneths
  Ham. He poysons him i'th' Garden for's estate: His
  Ham. I, but while the grasse growes, the Prouerbe is
   Ham. No, beleeue mee 'tis very cold, the winde is
hee is.
What Maiestie should be, what Dutie is,
To my sicke soule (as sinnes true Nature is)
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
download our past Newsletters, or subscribe here.  This
   Ham. This?
  Ham. I sir, that sokes vp the Kings Countenance, his
   Ham. He that playes the King shall be welcome; his
takes off his
If one could match you Sir. This report of his
to haue his fine Pate full of fine Dirt? will his
   Hor. This Lapwing runs away with the shell on his
  Clo. Why, because he was mad; hee shall recouer his
comes so neere the heeles of our Courtier, hee galls his
accepts his
sweet Lord: how dost thou, good Lord? this
In eare and eare. O my deere Gertrude, this,
   Polon. And then Sir does he this?
   Qu. To who do you speake this?
As deepe as to the Lungs? Who does me this?
   Polon. Wherefore should you doe this?
To make Oppression bitter, or ere this,
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.
And let vs heare Barnardo speake of this
   Kin. Let's further thinke of this,
As I do thee. Something too much of this.
[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
Now out of this
Your lonelinesse. We are oft too blame in this,
Into the Chappell. I pray you hast in this.
   Ham. Looke heere vpon this Picture, and on this,
Chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thicke, to this
Possesse it meerely. That it should come to this:
So excellent a King, that was to this
Take vp the body; Such a sight as this
   Ham. But where was this?
[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
  Qu. Oh what a rash, and bloody deed is this?
What warlike noyse is this?
  Qu. Alacke, what noyse is this?
   Hor. Why, what a King is this?
   King. Do you thinke 'tis this?
Graue, to tell vs this
Thine euermore most deere Lady, whilst this
  Laer. Why aske you this?
they aske you what it meanes, say you this:
Bodie of the Time, his forme and pressure. Now, this
   King. What dost thou meane by this?
and davidr@inconnect.com.  I hope that you enjoy this.
Scull of a Lawyer? where be his Quiddits now? his
Becomes the Field, but heere shewes much amis.
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
beard me in Denmarke? What, my yong Lady and Mistris?
          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
   Ham. Then is Doomesday neere: But your newes is
that doe ill: now, thou dost ill to say the Gallowes is
him a-downe-a. Oh, how the wheele becomes it? It is
world, the Parragon of Animals; and yet to me, what is
And bring the Gentlemen where Hamlet is
And what so poore a man as Hamlet is,
   Rosin. Why then your Ambition makes it one: 'tis
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me it is
Most holie and Religious feare it is
  Ghost. Murther most foule, as in the best it is;
to know it is.
incorporated into the printed copies.  This is just the way it is.
   Rosin. My Lord, you must tell vs where the body is,
Enter King, Queene, Rosincrane, and Guildensterne Cum alijs.
to Dido, and thereabout of it especially, where he speaks
but I thanke you: and sure deare friends my thanks
GET GUTINDEX.ALL [to get a listing of ALL books]
Affront Ophelia. Her Father, and my selfe (lawful espials)
Enter Barnardo and Francisco two Centinels.
  Ham. Oh all you host of Heauen! Oh Earth; what els?
Admit no Messengers, receiue no Tokens:
Is there not Raine enough in the sweet Heauens
   Ophe. O helpe him, you sweet Heauens
his Action of Battery? hum. This fellow might be in's
To cast beyond our selues in our Opinions,
*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*
further information is included below.  We need your donations.
Is the maine Motiue of our Preparations,
They haue proclaim'd their Malefactions.
Project Gutenberg Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,
to unpack the cliches, and thus you will see some substitutions
  King. O for two speciall Reasons,
Chaplesse, and knockt about the Mazard with a Sextons
The faire Ophelia? Nimph, in thy Orizons
T' assume a pleasing shape, yea and perhaps
   Clowne sings. But Age with his stealing steps
But Sir, such wanton, wild, and vsuall slips,
Giue me the Cups,
now: this Scul, has laine in the earth three & twenty years
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
  Ophe. He hath my Lord of late, made many tenders
   Qu. Aye me; what act, that roares so lowd, & thunders
  Ham. Oh, ha? Come some Musick. Come y Recorders:
  Osr. The Carriages Sir, are the hangers
Or padling in your necke with his damn'd Fingers,
Mother. But is there no sequell at the heeles of this Mothers
  Ham. I lou'd Ophelia; fortie thousand Brothers
The counterfet presentment of two Brothers:
   Ophe. There's Fennell for you, and Columbines: ther's
And for the day confin'd to fast in Fiers,
As you are Friends, Schollers and Soldiers,
And his Commission to imploy those Soldiers
In scuffling they change Rapiers.
Doe not beleeue his vowes; for they are Broakers,
   Ham. So I do still, by these pickers and stealers
Thicke and vnwholsome in their thoughts, and whispers
which is only ~5% of the present number of computer users.
Of accidentall iudgements, casuall slaughters
it is most like if their meanes are not better) their Writers
Hoboyes play. The dumbe shew enters.
this and other first folio editions.  This is due to the printer's
And keepe a Farme and Carters
   Ham. Do you thinke I meant Country matters?
Fellowes some meanes to the King: They haue Letters
Come, I will giue you way for these your Letters,
of Flowers.
   Ophe. Larded with sweet Flowers:
a whole Theater of Others. Oh, there bee Players
  Guil. There are the Players
Enter Hamlet, and two or three of the Players.
Flourish for the Players.
  Ham. We shall know by these Fellowes: the Players
  Rosin. Madam, it so fell out, that certaine Players
With most myraculous Organ. Ile haue these Players,
Enter foure or fiue Players.
freely; or the blanke Verse shall halt for't: what Players
Exit Players.
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
  King. Where are my Switzers?
   Pol. Come sirs.
   Pol. Giue first admittance to th' Ambassadors,
To both your Honors
made by our volunteer who prepared this file:  you may see errors
So. . .with this caveat. . .we have NOT changed the canon errors,
that are "not" errors. . . .
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
Our Crowne, our Life, and all that we call Ours
time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassador, with Drumme, Colours,
to mee, then a foule and pestilent congregation of vapours.
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his fauours,
The Portraiture of his; Ile count his fauours:
   Ophe. My Lord, I haue Remembrances of yours,
   Clo. You lye out on't Sir, and therefore it is not yours:
Exit Ambass.
new copy has at least one byte more or less.
   Ham. Thrift thrift Horatio: the Funerall Bakt-meats
Of carnall, bloudie, and vnnaturall acts,
With such dexterity to Incestuous sheets:
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
With witchcraft of his wits, hath Traitorous guifts.
   All. Lights, Lights, Lights.
To these delights
   Ham. Why did you laugh, when I said, Man delights
But I do prophesie th' election lights
may have other legal rights.
Thoughts
thoughts
And botch the words vp fit to their owne thoughts,
Free me so farre in your most generous thoughts,
not, Ile gaine nothing but my shame, and the odde hits
you and him, hee shall not exceed you three hits;
As he is very potent with such Spirits,
That no Reuennew hast, but thy good spirits
But looke, Amazement on thy Mother sits;
Oh Heauens, is't possible, a yong Maids wits,
  Clo. Faith e'ene with loosing his wits
Euen to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
Attendants.
thousand Tenants
Your bedded haire, like life in excrements,
That on the view and know of these Contents,
Betweene the passe, and fell incensed points
And there I see such blacke and grained spots,
Without the which we are Pictures, or meere Beasts.
That Spirit, vpon whose spirit depends and rests
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out Arrests
To giue in euidence. What then? What rests?
out of his swathing clouts
**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**
Actus Secundus.
With eyes like Carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
th'Hyrcanian Beast. It is not so: it begins with Pyrrhus
What is the reason that you vse me thus?
it could not moue thus
Whereon his Braines still beating, puts him thus
   King. How long hath she bin thus?
with modestie enough, & likeliehood to lead it; as thus.
Enter Voltemand and Cornelius.
Exit Voltemand and Cornelius.
Enter Polonius, Voltumand, and Cornelius.
What sayes Pollonius?
Polonius,
Enter Queene and Polonius.
Enter King, and Polonius.
Exit Hamlet tugging in Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Enter Polonius.
Killes Polonius
  King. Now Hamlet, where's Polonius?
   King. Where is Polonius
Exit Polonius.
Marcellus
Enter Horatio, Barnardo, and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.
   Bar. Welcome Horatio, welcome good Marcellus
Enter Hamlet, Horatio, Marcellus.
Speake of it. Stay, and speake. Stop it Marcellus
Enter Lucianus.
Haue of your audience beene most free and bounteous.
variety of errors we credit him for, even though he was in/famous
login: anonymous
of the Play be then to be considered: that's Villanous, &
   Ham. Heere thou incestuous, murdrous,
Yet haue I something in me dangerous,
Maiesty shall haue Tribute of mee: the aduenturous
Ouer his Kingdome. You know the Rendeuous:
Of blew Olympus
vnlimited. Seneca cannot be too heauy, nor Plautus
   Ham. Angels and Ministers of Grace defend vs:
For your desire to know what is betweene vs,
   King. Bring him before vs
   Both. We will haste vs.
Leaue vs.
This vnpreuayling woe, and thinke of vs
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seene of vs,
Might by the Soueraigne power you haue of vs,
When our deare plots do paule, and that should teach vs,
Haue you any further Trade with vs?
  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with vs,
If that his Maiesty would ought with vs,
Whose Image euen but now appear'd to vs,
Be you content to lend your patience to vs,
were Caines Iaw-bone, that did the first murther: It
  Ha. Why, As by lot, God wot: and then you know, It
He whips his Rapier out, and cries a Rat, a Rat,
Had witchcraft in't; he grew into his Seat,
   Ham. What?
that I haue seene Play, and heard others praise, and that
Passion, you must acquire and beget a Temperance that
  Clo. Why sir, his hide is so tan'd with his Trade, that
brackets [] is what I have added.  So if you don't like that
   Pol. Oh ho, do you marke that?
  Clo. E'ene that
   Ham. O reforme it altogether. And let those that
   Ham. Ha's this fellow no feeling of his businesse, that
As may dishonour him; take heed of that:
  Clown. Is she to bee buried in Christian buriall, that
  Clo. Cannot you tell that? euery foole can tell that:
Are of a most select and generous cheff in that.
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
anon: 'tis a knauish peece of worke: But what o'that?
And for my Soule, what can it doe to that?
A Villaine killes my Father, and for that
   King. Breake not your sleepes for that,
  Laer. How now? what noise is that?
   Ophel. Doe you doubt that?
count my selfe a King of infinite space; were it not that
As I perceiued it, I must tell you that
  Reynol. I my Lord, I would know that
   Pol. Hath there bene such a time, I'de fain know that,
   Ham. I must to England, you know that?
   Clo. Why there thou say'st. And the more pitty that
   Rosin. Beleeue what?
of Priams slaughter. If it liue in your memory, begin at
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
I prythee take thy fingers from my throat;
     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
Sir, you are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is at
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
To pay our selues, what to our selues is debt:
Spurnes enuiously at Strawes, speakes things in doubt,
  Ham. Such an Act
Nor any vnproportion'd thoughts his Act:
But howsoeuer thou pursuest this Act,
Is thought-sicke at the act
   Ham. And what did you enact?
Did slay this Fortinbras: who by a Seal'd Compact,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.
Or rather say, the cause of this defect;
The leaperous Distilment; whose effect
That we finde out the cause of this effect,
By Letters coniuring to that effect
'Twere better not assaid; therefore this Proiect
Teares in his eyes, distraction in's Aspect,
Must giue vs pawse. There's the respect
As will not leaue their Tinct
(As I perchance heereafter shall thinke meet
Most necessary 'tis, that we forget
   Gen. Good my Lord be quiet
Grating so harshly all his dayes of quiet
And put it in his Pocket
   King. I do not thinke't
his Maiestie, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
Hamlet.
Hamlet.
  King. I Hamlet
Enter Ghost and Hamlet.
Oh giue me leaue. How does my good Lord Hamlet?
  Ophe. So please you, somthing touching the L[ord]. Hamlet
As to giue words or talke with the Lord Hamlet:
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
  Mar. Lord Hamlet
Then a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
   Gentlemen within. Hamlet, Lord Hamlet
That I will speake to thee. Ile call thee Hamlet,
Exchange forgiuenesse with me, Noble Hamlet;
Enter Claudius King of Denmarke, Gertrude the Queene, Hamlet,
The Queene Carowses to thy fortune, Hamlet
   Laer. It is heere Hamlet.
In your Nature Hamlet,
of Hamlet.
This gentle and vnforc'd accord of Hamlet
The Tragedie of Hamlet
The Tragedie of Hamlet
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************
Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie of Hamlet
   Qu. Oh Hamlet,
Machine is to him, Hamlet.
   King. How fares our Cosin Hamlet?
   Ham. What noise? Who cals on Hamlet?
Speake to her Hamlet
   King. Thy louing Father Hamlet
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Enter Hamlet.
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Neuer Hamlet.
Ghost beckens Hamlet.
  King. What Gertrude? How do's Hamlet?
   Qu. Let not thy Mother lose her Prayers Hamlet:
No more sweet Hamlet
   Qu. Hamlet, Hamlet
Manet Hamlet.
Manet Hamlet.
Exit Hamlet.
Dar'd to the Combate. In which, our Valiant Hamlet,
Exeunt. Ghost & Hamlet.
   Qu. Why how now Hamlet?
bound for England, if your name be Horatio, as I am let
But you'l be secret?
  Rosin. She desires to speake with you in her Closset,
  Pol. My Lord, he's going to his Mothers Closset:
And with a sodaine vigour it doth posset
Payes homage to vs; thou maist not coldly set
Let go, by Heauen Ile haue't.
eare a hearer: that great Baby you see there, is not yet
And therefore I forbid my teares: but yet
And scape detecting, I will pay the Theft.
As made the things more rich, then perfume left:
Heere's yet some Liquor left
   Polon. Marry Sir, heere's my drift,
That with wings as swift
hung those lipps, that I haue kist I know not how oft.
Of Life, of Crowne, and Queene at once dispatcht;
  Mar. My Lord vpon the platforme where we watcht
Hold you the watch to Night?
With vs, to watch the minutes of this Night,
  Pol. He will come straight:
By Heauen, thy madnesse shall be payed by waight,
That lend a tyrannous, and damned light
   Bap. Nor Earth to giue me food, nor Heauen light,
Or if we list to speake; or there be and if there might,
Sport and repose locke from me day and night:
The death I gaue him: so againe, good night.
To the next abstinence. Once more goodnight,
Goodnight, goodnight.
   Fran. Giue you good night
  Fra. Barnardo ha's my place: giue you goodnight.
Doom'd for a certaine terme to walke the night;
In the dead wast and middle of the night
'Tis now the verie witching time of night,
   Hor. What art thou that vsurp'st this time of night,
mock him not. My good Friends, Ile leaue you til night
Delay it not, Ile haue him hence to night.
  Qu. Ah my good Lord, what haue I seene to night?
Let vs impart what we haue seene to night
   Mar. What, ha's this thing appear'd againe to night
Assume a Vertue, if you haue it not, refraine to night,
   Ham. Neuer make known what you haue seen to night
And whatsoeuer els shall hap to night,
   Hor. My Lord, I thinke I saw him yesternight
Your Skill shall like a Starre i'th' darkest night,
The time is out of ioynt: Oh cursed spight,
   Ham. Why right, you are i'th' right;
Thou liu'st, report me and my causes right
That euer I was borne to set it right.
   Other. Who builds stronger then a Mason, a Shipwright,
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
Or look'd vpon this Loue, with idle sight,
And vanisht from our sight
If you haue hitherto conceald this sight;
  Fortin. Where is this sight?
Is sicklied o're, with the pale cast of Thought,
Indeed would make one thinke there would be thought,
   Polon. Marry, well bethought:
But answere made it none: yet once me thought
But in our circumstance and course of thought
With the braue Beast, so farre he past my thought,
And England, if my loue thou holdst at ought,
   Ham. No, no, I neuer gaue you ought
And you must needs haue heard how I am punisht
Conscience and Grace, to the profoundest Pit.
Gumme: and that they haue a plentifull locke of Wit,
Therefore, since Breuitie is the Soule of Wit,
time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
outHerod's Herod. Pray you auoid it
   Ham. Yours, yours; hee does well to commend it
   Reynol. My Lord, I did intend it
   Mar. So be it
Could force his soule so to his whole conceit,
carriages, and of very liberall conceit
most powerfully, and potently beleeue; yet I holde it
So by his Father lost: and this (I take it)
   Ham. No you'l reueale it
  Ophe. My Lord, I doe not know: but truly I do feare it
   King. I do not feare it,
   For. Let vs hast to heare it,
It fits your wisedome so farre to beleeue it;
   Hor. Neuer beleeue it.
   Ham. Do not beleeue it
   Hor. So haue I heard, and do in part beleeue it.
And Sister, as the Winds giue Benefit,
Which is the Mightier, in his lawlesse fit
once: how the knaue iowles it to th' grownd, as if it
to come: if it bee not to come, it will bee now: if it
And draw you into madnesse thinke of it?
Time qualifies the sparke and fire of it:
Lord Horatio, these three yeares I haue taken note of it,
lay him i'th' cold ground: My brother shall knowe of it,
   Ham. O throw away the worser part of it,
To let you know of it
And you your selfe shall keepe the key of it
their repaire hither, and say you are not fit
We would not vnderstand what was most fit,
And wil not wrong it
Then your particular demands will touch it,
If Hamlet giue the first, or second hit,
   Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit
But doe not goe with it
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
  Hor. It beckons you to goe away with it,
it to you trippingly on the Tongue: But if you mouth it,
   Ham. How say you then, would heart of man once think it?
Of Hamlets transformation: so I call it,
the Danish; why is this impon'd as you call it?
Rew for you, and heere's some for me. Wee may call it
  Hor. Good my Lord tell it
So mortall, I but dipt a knife in it,
and Gauntlets, a Table and Flagons of Wine on it.
He may approue our eyes, and speake to it
   Ham. Did you not speake to it?
  Gho. I am thy Fathers Spirit,
The potent poyson quite ore-crowes my spirit,
And am most sensible in greefe for it,
Thus much the businesse is. We haue heere writ
are too deare a halfepeny; were you not sent for? Is it
   Ham. Whose was it?
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it:
Is not more vgly to the thing that helpes it,
This was sometime a Paradox, but now the time giues it
And I beseech you instantly to visit
But that this folly doubts it.
The hearers to Collection; they ayme at it,
you asham'd to shew, hee'l not shame to tell you what it
   Hor. Heauen will direct it
haue such a Fellow whipt for o're-doing Termagant: it
   Ham. It will not speake: then will I follow it
It waues me forth againe; Ile follow it
   Ham. Hast, hast me to know it,
Exit
Exit
Exit
Exit
   King. We will try it.
   Ophe. Tis in my memory lockt,
Goes slow and stately: By them thrice he walkt,
Oh heate drie vp my Braines, teares seuen times salt,
  Ham. Oh that this too too solid Flesh, would melt,
It spill's it selfe, in fearing to be spilt.
Obserue mine Vnkle: If his occulted guilt,
So full of Artlesse iealousie is guilt,
A sauagenes in vnreclaim'd bloud of generall assault
in't?
on't
Enter Horatio, with an Attendant.
Laertes, and his Sister Ophelia, Lords Attendant.
Enter King, Queene, Laertes, and a Coffin, with Lords attendant.
   Ophe. Will they tell vs what this shew meant?
And they ran well on Horsebacke; but this Gallant
Had he bin Vanquisher, as by the same Cou'nant
And I belieue it is a fetch of warrant:
the Age is growne so picked, that the toe of the Pesant
Against your selfe. I know you are no Truant:
Exit Gent.
Exeunt. Gent.
And here giue vp our selues, in the full bent,
Th' Associates tend, and euery thing at bent
They foole me to the top of my bent.
   Pol. Fore God, my Lord, well spoken, with good accent,
Greefe ioyes, Ioy greeues on slender accident.
   Ham. I pray thee doe not mock me (fellow Student)
Vp Sword, and know thou a more horrid hent
How in my words someuer she be shent,
  Ophe. I hope all will be well. We must bee patient,
A Heart vnfortified, a Minde impatient,
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
to lament
Where Ioy most Reuels, Greefe doth most lament;
answer, I will doe your Mothers command'ment:
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
   Ham. Sir I lacke Aduancement
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
Diuided from her selfe, and her faire Iudgement,
   Ham. Iudgement
And waites vpon the Iudgement: and what Iudgement
I am sorrie that with better speed and iudgement
Take each mans censure; but reserue thy iudgement:
I stand aloofe, and will no reconcilement,
Was our Sea Fight, and what to this was sement,
     "Small Print!" statement.
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
fairely outward) should more appeare like entertainment
But doe not dull thy palme, with entertainment
And enterprizes of great pith and moment,
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
There was for a while, no mony bid for argument,
This Graue shall haue a liuing Monument:
   Ham. Why man, they did make loue to this imployment
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Yet what can it, when one cannot repent?
The text I have used was a composite of more than 30 different
Haply the Seas and Countries different
your hand thus, but vse all gently; for in the verie Torrent,
To giue them Seales, neuer my Soule consent.
Against the which, a Moity competent
My stronger guilt, defeats my strong intent,
Do I impart towards you. For your intent
To giue it due content
Will be some danger, which to preuent
   Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
That ha's no rellish of Saluation in't,
That is but scratcht withall: Ile touch my point,
   Ham. I thinke it be thine indeed: for thou liest in't
   Ophe. Indeed la? without an oath Ile make an end ont.
It hath the primall eldest curse vpon't,
What thinke you on't?
From fashion of himselfe. What thinke you on't?
It is; Adue, Adue, Remember me: I haue sworn't
Should haue kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt,
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt.
Exeunt
Exeunt.
Fixt on the Somnet of the highest Mount.
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
Eyes. When I shall (first asking your Pardon thereunto) recount
Epitaph is, For o, For o, the Hoby-horse is forgot.
Exeunt. Marching: after the which, a Peale of Ordenance are shot
   Osr. I thanke your Lordship, 'tis very hot
Cries Cuckold to my Father, brands the Harlot
A Brothers murther. Pray can I not,
   Other. Will you ha the truth on't: if this had not
Which Reason and Sanitie could not
  Ham. I, or any shew that you'l shew him. Bee not
   Laer. Oh, feare me not.
   Qu. Ile warrant you, feare me not.
  Rosin. No indeed, they are not
I would set downe, and insert in't? Could ye not?
To you in satisfaction. But if not,
   Ham. Come, come, and sit you downe, you shall not
   Both. My Lord, we will not
  Mes. Saylors my Lord they say, I saw them not:
Of all their Conference. If she finde him not,
  Guild. My Lord, I cannot
   Guild. Beleeue me, I cannot
   Ham. Sir, I cannot
excellent Voice, in this little Organe, yet cannot
Marke the encounter: If he loue her not,
   Ham. Nay that followes not
   Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not
him; hee drownes not himselfe. Argall, hee that is not
Prouidence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not
If thou hast nature in thee beare it not;
Try what Repentance can. What can it not?
one that could circumuent God, might it not?
a ones Horse, when he meant to begge it; might it not?
of it. I loued you not
Shall you my Sonne; you haue me, haue you not?
   Hor. In what particular thought to work, I know not:
  Ham. Nay, I know not
   Clo. Too't
   Laer. I will doo't.
I prythee, when thou see'st that Acte a-foot,
looke too't
Yong men wil doo't, if they come too't,
   Hor. So Guildensterne and Rosincrance, go too't
   Ham. How long will a man lie i'th' earth ere he rot?
   Ghost. I finde thee apt,
   Lucian. Thoughts blacke, hands apt,
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
  Kin. 'Tis Hamlets Character, naked and in a Postscript
   Qu. More matter, with lesse Art
The Harlots Cheeke beautied with plaist'ring Art
But farewell it: for I will vse no Art.
Michael S. Hart
The Head is not more Natiue to the Heart,
A face without a heart?
seeme to know my stops: you would pluck out the heart
  Hora. Now cracke a Noble heart:
In my hearts Core. I, in my Heart of heart,
There's trickes i'th' world, and hems, and beats her heart,
This something setled matter in his heart:
And I am sicke at heart
If thou did'st euer hold me in thy heart,
And shall I couple Hell? Oh fie: hold my heart;
It warmes the very sicknesse in my heart,
   Ham. Nay, but swear't
Or you deny me right: go but apart,
I hold it fit that we shake hands, and part:
Wee'l teach you to drinke deepe, ere you depart
Such as it is: and for mine owne poore part,
Thy knotty and combined lockes to part,
   Pol. My Lord, I will vse them according to their desart
Least with this pitteous action you conuert
of dirt
   Ham. It will be short,
To make it truster of your owne report
And gaue you such a Masterly report,
And with a looke so pitious in purport,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
That she should locke her selfe from his Resort,
As it is common for the yonger sort
   King. O yet defend me Friends, I am but hurt
To heare of it: They are about the Court,
That you vouchsafe your rest heere in our Court
Fell into a Sadnesse, then into a Fast,
know him: he hath much Land, and fertile; let a Beast
  Ghost. I that incestuous, that adulterate Beast
My Newes shall be the Newes to that great Feast
   Ham. Well said old Mole, can'st worke i'th' ground so fast?
Marcellus, the Riuals of my Watch, bid them make hast.
   Ham. Bid the Players make hast.
That else leanes on th' Affaire, pray you make hast.
What might be toward, that this sweaty hast
All sawes of Bookes, all formes, all presures past,
Would step from this, to this? What diuell was't,
   Laer. A Norman was't?
   Ham. O Iephta Iudge of Israel, what a Treasure had'st
That I haue vttered; bring me to the Test
free to email me those errors.  I wish to make this the best
   Ham. I shall in all my best
A Couch for Luxury and damned Incest.
sent, and repaire thou to me with as much hast as thou wouldest
May Violets spring. I tell thee (churlish Priest)
And when you are desirous to be blest,
honest
rest of my seruants: for to speake to you like an honest
be a breeder of Sinners? I am my selfe indifferent honest,
   Ham. Ha, ha: Are you honest?
Such Loue, must needs be Treason in my brest:
  Bap. Oh confound the rest:
   Ham. 'Tis well, Ile haue thee speake out the rest,
And flights of Angels sing thee to thy rest,
That cannot be, since I am still possest
Giue me one poore request
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.
of my Mysterie; you would sound mee from my lowest
lyest
The Ocean (ouer-peering of his List)
To eares of flesh and bloud; list Hamlet, oh list,
  Ham. I marry ist;
liberall conceited Carriages, that's the French but against
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
Enter the Ghost.
Exit the Ghost.
   Ham. Alas poore Ghost
Enter Ghost.
Enter Ghost.
Exit Ghost.
   Laer. And so haue I a Noble Father lost,
Whose motiue in this case should stirre me most
She married. O most wicked speed, to post
None wed the second, but who kill'd the first
worst
In second Husband, let me be accurst,
So to seduce? Won to this shamefull Lust
Seeke for thy Noble Father in the dust;
Discomfort you (my Lord) it nothing must:
Most Lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
That I distrust you: yet though I distrust,
a Bakers daughter. Lord, wee know what we are, but
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding, but
continuing the printing run.  The proof run wasn't thrown away but
And a most instant Tetter bak'd about,
oddes: but thou wouldest not thinke how all heere about
doe's he suffer this rude knaue now to knocke him about
them to their tryalls: the Bubbles are out
   Laer. Where is the King, sirs? Stand you all without
The Trumpet to the Cannoneer without,
Make you to rauell all this matter out,
   Ham. My fate cries out,
When Churchyards yawne, and Hell it selfe breaths out
By indirections finde directions out:
finde it out.
Treacherie, seeke it out
The kettle Drum and Trumpet thus bray out
printed text.  I have corrected some spelling mistakes (I have put
   Ham. I will receiue it with all diligence of spirit; put
   Hor. Not when I saw't
The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
July, 2000  [Etext #2265]
come in ASCII to the printed text.
cd etext90 through etext99
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-six text
Or that the Euerlasting had not fixt
ftp sunsite.unc.edu
it. Adieu.
thou?
'tis for the dead, not for the quicke, therefore thou
Ile rant as well as thou
For Husband shalt thou-
   Ham. Get thee to a Nunnerie. Why would'st thou
Thus diddest thou
  Ham. My excellent good friends? How do'st thou
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
   Mar. O farwel honest Soldier, who hath relieu'd you?
   Hor. It would haue much amaz'd you
Moreouer, that we much did long to see you,
Had it th' abilitie of life to thanke you:
   Ham. Very well. Follow that Lord, and looke you
So grace and mercy at your most neede helpe you:
To let his madnesse range. Therefore prepare you,
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
with a difference. There's a Daysie, I would giue you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
do you go about to recouer the winde of mee, as if you
   Qu. Good Gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
Take my leaue of you
   Kin. Hee mad confession of you,
Where you may see the inmost part of you?
  Hor. I beseech you
   Ham. I do beseech you
selfe: but indeed, if you finde him not this moneth, you
Come sir, to draw toward an end with you.
   Guild. Good my Lord, vouchsafe me a word with you
Ile change that name with you:
And you are staid for there: my blessing with you;
And he to England shall along with you:
  Polon. My Lord; the Queene would speak with you,
And now Laertes, what's the newes with you?
  Qu. Alas, how is't with you?
Is strick'd in his Arrest) oh I could tell you.
It is an honest Ghost, that let me tell you:
   Pol. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you
   Ham. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you.
And that in way of caution: I must tell you,
But let me heare from you
   King. How is it that the Clouds still hang on you?
   Ham. And fixt his eyes vpon you?
  Both. Wee'l wait vpon you
to you
What I haue said to you
  Polon. What ist Ophelia he hath said to you?
With all my loue I doe commend me to you;
of spirit, hath sent me to you
  Kin. Laertes was your Father deare to you?
May doe t' expresse his loue and friending to you,
This maruell to you
you withall; be euen and direct with me, whether you
  Ser. Saylors sir, they say they haue Letters for you
I know the good King & Queene haue sent for you
Whereof he is the Head. Then if he sayes he loues you,
for Wise men know well enough, what monsters you
Before my Daughter told me what might you
Ile visit you
You, as your busines and desires shall point you:
Giue her good watch I pray you:
   Ham. I pray you
   Ham. Arm'd, say you?
   Rosin. What say you?
Come: Another hit; what say you?
   King. Who shall stay you?
   Qu. I shall obey you,
that look very odd. . .such as the exchanges of u for v, v for u,
Lost by his Father: with all Bonds of Law
  Clo. I marry is't, Crowners Quest Law
Should patch a Wall, t' expell the winters flaw.
   Other. But is this law?
Dies not alone; but like a Gulfe doth draw
Winde is Southerly, I know a Hawke from a Handsaw.
Thaw, and resolue it selfe into a Dew:
Herbe-Grace a Sundaies: Oh you must weare your Rew
assortment of sporadic gifts; this salary is only good for a few
lest my extent to the Players (which I tell you must shew
I am dead Horatio, wretched Queene adiew,
High on a stage be placed to the view,
   Barn. It was about to speake, when the Cocke crew
Finger'd their Packet, and in fine, withdrew
That it went hand in hand, euen with the Vow
   Ham. A dreame it selfe is but a shadow
very substance of the Ambitious, is meerely the shadow
light a quality, that it is but a shadowes shadow
hath borne me on his backe a thousand times: And how
But I haue that Within, which passeth show;
Not of the eye, which their Inuestments show:
author and by title, and includes information about how
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
the most fond and winnowed opinions; and doe but blow
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
The bold windes speechlesse, and the Orbe below
  King. My words flye vp, my thoughts remain below,
So, please take this into account when reading the comments below
A rapsidie of words. Heauens face doth glow,
Of these dilated Articles allow:
She seeing him a-sleepe, leaues him. Anon comes in a Fellow,
Therefore let's follow.
The Queene, the Courtiers. Who is that they follow,
White his Shrow'd as the Mountaine Snow
for thy Dowrie. Be thou as chast as Ice, as pure as Snow,
His Beard as white as Snow,
  King. Not that I know
And tell you what I know
   Polon. I, Springes to catch Woodcocks. I doe know
  Mar. Let do't I pray, and I this morning know
But made in craft. 'Twere good you let him know,
(And praise be rashnesse for it) let vs know,
It did me Yeomans seriuce: wilt thou know
Now what my loue is, proofe hath made you know,
   Laer. My Lord, Ile hit him now
  Ham. Whats the matter now?
   Ham. What hower now?
How to forget that learning: but Sir now,
   Ham. If she should breake it now
Videlicet, a Brothell, or so forth. See you now;
Growes wide withall. Perhaps he loues you now,
   Laer. Haue at you now.
And loose the name of Action. Soft you now,
See what a grace was seated on his Brow,
Euen heere betweene the chaste vnsmirched brow
And with his other hand thus o're his brow,
Doth by their owne insinuation grow:
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourely grow
And in the Cup an vnion shal he throw
And if thou prate of Mountaines; let them throw
   Ham. Or of a Courtier, which could say, Good Morrow
Beares such an Emphasis? whose phrase of Sorrow
  Ham. Follow him Friends: wee'l heare a play to morrow.
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
in the Index
This is our 3rd edition of most of these plays.  See the index.
P. O. Box  2782
And it must follow, as the Night the Day,
Till our Scale turnes the beame. Oh Rose of May,
With all his Crimes broad blowne, as fresh as May,
How does your Honor for this many a day?
place of some "w"'s, etc.  This was a common practice of the day,
Doth make the Night ioynt-Labourer with the day:
The Cocke that is the Trumpet to the day,
And do such bitter businesse as the day
From the first Coarse, till he that dyed to day,
No iocond health that Denmarke drinkes to day,
I saw him yesterday, or tother day;
The Cat will Mew, and Dogge will haue his day.
  Clo. Of all the dayes i'th' yeare, I came too't that day
The changeling neuer knowne: Now, the next day
Play.
Play?
Play.
That would not let me sleepe; me thought I lay
I haue heard, that guilty Creatures sitting at a Play,
  Pol. Giue o're the Play
   King. What do you call the Play?
But if you hold it fit after the Play,
  Ham. Madam, how like you this Play?
Imperiall Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
The pangs of dispriz'd Loue, the Lawes delay,
The Hart vngalled play:
Prepare to play.
For they are actions that a man might play:
   Ham. I do not well vnderstand that. Will you play
They play.
And will this Brothers wager frankely play.
   Ham. Let the doores be shut vpon him, that he may
Let Hercules himselfe doe what he may,
differences between various copies of the first folio.  So there may
copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
My soule is full of discord and dismay.
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
   Ophe. Madam, I wish it may
That you haue tane his tenders for true pay,
And still your fingers on your lippes I pray,
Looke you, Ile goe pray
Th' important acting of your dread command? Oh say
He does: what was I about to say?
Art more ingag'd: Helpe Angels, make assay:
but to the matter. My Mother you say
Or then or then, with such and such; and as you say,
i'th' Vniuersity, you say?
  Clo. Very strangely they say
   King. Giue me some Light. Away
So runnes the world away.
Might stop a hole to keepe the winde away.
Respeaking earthly Thunder. Come away.
   King. Oh Gertrude, come away:
And what's vntimely done. Oh come away,
If Hamlet from himselfe be tane away:
With this regard their Currants turne away,
   Pol. Away I do beseech you, both away,
   Barn. See, it stalkes away
   Ham. Why look you there: looke how it steals away:
   Ham. Do the Boyes carry it away?
And at the sound it shrunke in hast away,
censure of the which One, must in your allowance o'reway
  Osr. Nothing neither way
For bearing of this greeting to old Norway,
Was (as you know) by Fortinbras of Norway,
   Polon. Marry Ile teach you; thinke your selfe a Baby,
In the Lobby
shall nose him as you go vp the staires into the Lobby
By and by
I will come by and by
   Ham. Then will I come to my Mother, by and by:
That laps't in Time and Passion, lets go by
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
to view http://promo.net/pg.  This site lists Etexts by
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
With turbulent and dangerous Lunacy
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy
To wash it white as Snow? Whereto serues mercy,
Here as before, neuer so helpe you mercy,
   Ham. How is it with you Lady?
   King. How do ye, pretty Lady?
   Marcell. We haue sworne my Lord already
Thou know'st already
Calfe there. Be the Players ready?
Here was a Gentleman of Normandy,
All my smooth Body.
Vnto the voyce and yeelding of that Body,
  Ro. What haue you done my Lord with the dead body?
The naturall Gates and Allies of the body;
Go seeke him out, speake faire, and bring the body
And makes each petty Artire in this body,
With which she followed my poore Fathers body
   Guil. We both obey,
are they?
them after your own Honor and Dignity. The lesse they
fashion, and so be-ratled the common Stages (so they
been corrected, here are the first few lines of Hamlet, as they
Say Voltumand, what from our Brother Norwey?
   Ham. Why?
We are arrant Knaues all, beleeue none of vs. Goe thy
Quillets? his Cases? his Tenures, and his Tricks? why
O the Recorder. Let me see, to withdraw with you, why
and not made them well, they imitated Humanity so abhominably
My Honourable Lord, I will most humbly
   Ham. I do embrace it freely,
Subscrib'd it, gau't th' impression, plac't it safely,
   Ham. How strangely?
  Qu. It may be very likely
The Oppressors wrong, the poore mans Contumely,
You doe not vnderstand your selfe so cleerely,
On wholsome life, vsurpe immediately.
Kingdome. To morrow shall I begge leaue to see your Kingly
   Ham. What, lookt he frowningly?
wittingly
Worse then the mutines in the Bilboes, rashly,
Though nothing sure, yet much vnhappily
Yes faith, heartily
   Ham. I'm sorry they offend you heartily:
receive it electronically.
  Ham. The Mouse-trap: Marry how? Tropically:
Laertes, you but dally,
To haue prou'd most royally:
Out of my Weaknesse, and my Melancholly,
To th' Ambassadors of England giues this warlike volly
a man do, but be merrie. For looke you how cheerefully
For good Polonius death; and we haue done but greenly
   King. Why 'tis a louing, and a faire Reply,
Most free in his reply
Which are not starling. Tender your selfe more dearly;
Northerly
is too vnmannerly
With this contagion, that if I gall him slightly,
  Hor. Most constantly
Where we shall finde him most conueniently.
and presently
Ile boord him presently.
  Pol. And the Queene too, and that presently
Bene strooke so to the soule, that presently
That's not my meaning: but breath his faults so quaintly,
manage to get some real funding; currently our funding is mostly
will more willingly part withall, except my life, my
and so I thanke you for your good counsell. Come, my
His madnesse is poore Hamlets Enemy.
Pons Chanson will shew you more. For looke where my
   Ham. It would cost you a groaning, to take off my
   Rosin. My Lord, there was no such stuffe in my
   Ham. Mee thinkes it is very soultry, and hot for my
works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
copyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT keep any
To go directly to the etext collections, use FTP or any
That you ore-stop not the modestie of Nature; for any
  Ham. Ah ha boy, sayest thou so. Art thou there truepenny?
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony:
The violence of other Greefe or Ioy,
Haue we, as 'twere, with a defeated ioy,
Each opposite that blankes the face of ioy,
And there did seeme in him a kinde of ioy
Whereon old Norwey, ouercome with ioy,
For bonny sweet Robin is all my ioy
Their owne ennactors with themselues destroy:
Meet what I would haue well, and it destroy:
As England was his faithfull Tributary,
   Qu. How cheerefully on the false Traile they cry,
I ha't: when in your motion you are hot and dry,
And borrowing duls the edge of Husbandry.
And our vaine blowes, malicious Mockery
thou shalt not escape Calumny. Get thee to a Nunnery.
Hangers or so: three of the Carriages infaith are very
for him. Ere we were two dayes old at Sea, a Pyrate of very
Before you visite him you make inquiry
Yea, from the Table of my Memory,
And these few Precepts in thy memory,
That are so fortified against our Story,
   Ham. Sir, a whole History
there was no Sallets in the lines, to make the matter sauory;
   Polon. At closes in the consequence, I marry,
And who in want a hollow Friend doth try,
Of man and Country
   K. Hamlet, this deed of thine, for thine especial safety
the Tragedians of the City
haue a Speech straight. Come giue vs a tast of your quality:
In neither ought, or in extremity:
From me, whose loue was of that dignity,
Passing through Nature, to Eternity
To his vnmastred importunity.
By gis, and by S[aint]. Charity,
assortment of these made available to him by Cambridge University
Mellon University).
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
To youth and liberty
That they may seeme the taints of liberty;
I should impart a thing to you from his Maiesty
  Ham. That if you be honest and faire, your Honesty
something musty.
   Ham. How comes it? doe they grow rusty?
As needfull in our Loues, fitting our Duty?
suck't it: thus had he and mine more of the same Beauty
And we did thinke it writ downe in our duty
   Volt. In that, and all things, will we shew our duty
Farewell, and let your hast commend your duty
   Laer. This is too heauy,
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy;
Pul'd the poore wretch from her melodious buy,
Did Hamlet so envenom with his Enuy,


















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************

This is our 3rd edition of most of these plays.  See the index.


Copyright laws are changing all over the world, be sure to check
the copyright laws for your country before posting these files!!

Please take a look at the important information in this header.
We encourage you to keep this file on your own disk, keeping an
electronic path open for the next readers.  Do not remove this.


**Welcome To The World of Free Plain Vanilla Electronic Texts**

**Etexts Readable By Both Humans and By Computers, Since 1971**

*These Etexts Prepared By Hundreds of Volunteers and Donations*

Information on contacting Project Gutenberg to get Etexts, and
further information is included below.  We need your donations.


The Tragedie of Hamlet

by William Shakespeare

July, 2000  [Etext #2265]


***The Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's First Folio***
*********************The Tragedie of Hamlet*********************

*****This file should be named 2265.txt or 2265.zip******

Project Gutenberg Etexts are usually created from multiple editions,
all of which are in the Public Domain in the United States, unless a
copyright notice is included.  Therefore, we usually do NOT keep any
of these books in compliance with any particular paper edition.


We are now trying to release all our books one month in advance
of the official release dates, leaving time for better editing.

Please note:  neither this list nor its contents are final till
midnight of the last day of the month of any such announcement.
The official release date of all Project Gutenberg Etexts is at
Midnight, Central Time, of the last day of the stated month.  A
preliminary version may often be posted for suggestion, comment
and editing by those who wish to do so.  To be sure you have an
up to date first edition [xxxxx10x.xxx] please check file sizes
in the first week of the next month.  Since our ftp program has
a bug in it that scrambles the date [tried to fix and failed] a
look at the file size will have to do, but we will try to see a
new copy has at least one byte more or less.


Information about Project Gutenberg (one page)

We produce about two million dollars for each hour we work.  The
time it takes us, a rather conservative estimate, is fifty hours
to get any etext selected, entered, proofread, edited, copyright
searched and analyzed, the copyright letters written, etc.  This
projected audience is one hundred million readers.  If our value
per text is nominally estimated at one dollar then we produce $2
million dollars per hour this year as we release thirty-six text
files per month, or 432 more Etexts in 1999 for a total of 2000+
If these reach just 10% of the computerized population, then the
total should reach over 200 billion Etexts given away this year.

The Goal of Project Gutenberg is to Give Away One Trillion Etext
Files by December 31, 2001.  [10,000 x 100,000,000 = 1 Trillion]
This is ten thousand titles each to one hundred million readers,
which is only ~5% of the present number of computer users.

At our revised rates of production, we will reach only one-third
of that goal by the end of 2001, or about 3,333 Etexts unless we
manage to get some real funding; currently our funding is mostly
from Michael Hart's salary at Carnegie-Mellon University, and an
assortment of sporadic gifts; this salary is only good for a few
more years, so we are looking for something to replace it, as we
don't want Project Gutenberg to be so dependent on one person.

We need your donations more than ever!


All donations should be made to "Project Gutenberg/CMU": and are
tax deductible to the extent allowable by law.  (CMU = Carnegie-
Mellon University).

For these and other matters, please mail to:

Project Gutenberg
P. O. Box  2782
Champaign, IL 61825

When all other email fails. . .try our Executive Director:
Michael S. Hart <hart@pobox.com>
hart@pobox.com forwards to hart@prairienet.org and archive.org
if your mail bounces from archive.org, I will still see it, if
it bounces from prairienet.org, better resend later on. . . .

We would prefer to send you this information by email.

******

To access Project Gutenberg etexts, use any Web browser
to view http://promo.net/pg.  This site lists Etexts by
author and by title, and includes information about how
to get involved with Project Gutenberg.  You could also
download our past Newsletters, or subscribe here.  This
is one of our major sites, please email hart@pobox.com,
for a more complete list of our various sites.

To go directly to the etext collections, use FTP or any
Web browser to visit a Project Gutenberg mirror (mirror
sites are available on 7 continents; mirrors are listed
at http://promo.net/pg).

Mac users, do NOT point and click, typing works better.

Example FTP session:

ftp sunsite.unc.edu
login: anonymous
password: your@login
cd pub/docs/books/gutenberg
cd etext90 through etext99
dir [to see files]
get or mget [to get files. . .set bin for zip files]
GET GUTINDEX.??  [to get a year's listing of books, e.g., GUTINDEX.99]
GET GUTINDEX.ALL [to get a listing of ALL books]

***

**Information prepared by the Project Gutenberg legal advisor**

(Three Pages)


***START**THE SMALL PRINT!**FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS**START***
Why is this "Small Print!" statement here?  You know: lawyers.
They tell us you might sue us if there is something wrong with
your copy of this etext, even if you got it for free from
someone other than us, and even if what's wrong is not our
fault.  So, among other things, this "Small Print!" statement
disclaims most of our liability to you.  It also tells you how
you can distribute copies of this etext if you want to.

*BEFORE!* YOU USE OR READ THIS ETEXT
By using or reading any part of this PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
etext, you indicate that you understand, agree to and accept
this "Small Print!" statement.  If you do not, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for this etext by
sending a request within 30 days of receiving it to the person
you got it from.  If you received this etext on a physical
medium (such as a disk), you must return it with your request.

ABOUT PROJECT GUTENBERG-TM ETEXTS
This PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext, like most PROJECT GUTENBERG-
tm etexts, is a "public domain" work distributed by Professor
Michael S. Hart through the Project Gutenberg Association at
Carnegie-Mellon University (the "Project").  Among other
things, this means that no one owns a United States copyright
on or for this work, so the Project (and you!) can copy and
distribute it in the United States without permission and
without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules, set forth
below, apply if you wish to copy and distribute this etext
under the Project's "PROJECT GUTENBERG" trademark.

To create these etexts, the Project expends considerable
efforts to identify, transcribe and proofread public domain
works.  Despite these efforts, the Project's etexts and any
medium they may be on may contain "Defects".  Among other
things, Defects may take the form of incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged
disk or other etext medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

LIMITED WARRANTY; DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES
But for the "Right of Replacement or Refund" described below,
[1] the Project (and any other party you may receive this
etext from as a PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm etext) disclaims all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including
legal fees, and [2] YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE OR
UNDER STRICT LIABILITY, OR FOR BREACH OF WARRANTY OR CONTRACT,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE
OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

If you discover a Defect in this etext within 90 days of
receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any)
you paid for it by sending an explanatory note within that
time to the person you received it from.  If you received it
on a physical medium, you must return it with your note, and
such person may choose to alternatively give you a replacement
copy.  If you received it electronically, such person may
choose to alternatively give you a second opportunity to
receive it electronically.

THIS ETEXT IS OTHERWISE PROVIDED TO YOU "AS-IS".  NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ARE MADE TO YOU AS
TO THE ETEXT OR ANY MEDIUM IT MAY BE ON, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or
the exclusion or limitation of consequential damages, so the
above disclaimers and exclusions may not apply to you, and you
may have other legal rights.

INDEMNITY
You will indemnify and hold the Project, its directors,
officers, members and agents harmless from all liability, cost
and expense, including legal fees, that arise directly or
indirectly from any of the following that you do or cause:
[1] distribution of this etext, [2] alteration, modification,
or addition to the etext, or [3] any Defect.

DISTRIBUTION UNDER "PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm"
You may distribute copies of this etext electronically, or by
disk, book or any other medium if you either delete this
"Small Print!" and all other references to Project Gutenberg,
or:

[1]  Only give exact copies of it.  Among other things, this
     requires that you do not remove, alter or modify the
     etext or this "small print!" statement.  You may however,
     if you wish, distribute this etext in machine readable
     binary, compressed, mark-up, or proprietary form,
     including any form resulting from conversion by word pro-
     cessing or hypertext software, but only so long as
     *EITHER*:

     [*]  The etext, when displayed, is clearly readable, and
          does *not* contain characters other than those
          intended by the author of the work, although tilde
          (~), asterisk (*) and underline (_) characters may
          be used to convey punctuation intended by the
          author, and additional characters may be used to
          indicate hypertext links; OR

     [*]  The etext may be readily converted by the reader at
          no expense into plain ASCII, EBCDIC or equivalent
          form by the program that displays the etext (as is
          the case, for instance, with most word processors);
          OR

     [*]  You provide, or agree to also provide on request at
          no additional cost, fee or expense, a copy of the
          etext in its original plain ASCII form (or in EBCDIC
          or other equivalent proprietary form).

[2]  Honor the etext refund and replacement provisions of this
     "Small Print!" statement.

[3]  Pay a trademark license fee to the Project of 20% of the
     net profits you derive calculated using the method you
     already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  If you
     don't derive profits, no royalty is due.  Royalties are
     payable to "Project Gutenberg Association/Carnegie-Mellon
     University" within the 60 days following each
     date you prepare (or were legally required to prepare)
     your annual (or equivalent periodic) tax return.

WHAT IF YOU *WANT* TO SEND MONEY EVEN IF YOU DON'T HAVE TO?
The Project gratefully accepts contributions in money, time,
scanning machines, OCR software, public domain etexts, royalty
free copyright licenses, and every other sort of contribution
you can think of.  Money should be paid to "Project Gutenberg
Association / Carnegie-Mellon University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*





Project Gutenberg's Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie of Hamlet




Executive Director's Notes:

In addition to the notes below, and so you will *NOT* think all
the spelling errors introduced by the printers of the time have
been corrected, here are the first few lines of Hamlet, as they
are presented herein:

  Barnardo. Who's there?
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
your selfe

   Bar. Long liue the King

***

As I understand it, the printers often ran out of certain words
or letters they had often packed into a "cliche". . .this is the
original meaning of the term cliche. . .and thus, being unwilling
to unpack the cliches, and thus you will see some substitutions
that look very odd. . .such as the exchanges of u for v, v for u,
above. . .and you may wonder why they did it this way, presuming
Shakespeare did not actually write the play in this manner. . . .

The answer is that they MAY have packed "liue" into a cliche at a
time when they were out of "v"'s. . .possibly having used "vv" in
place of some "w"'s, etc.  This was a common practice of the day,
as print was still quite expensive, and they didn't want to spend
more on a wider selection of characters than they had to.

You will find a lot of these kinds of "errors" in this text, as I
have mentioned in other times and places, many "scholars" have an
extreme attachment to these errors, and many have accorded them a
very high place in the "canon" of Shakespeare.  My father read an
assortment of these made available to him by Cambridge University
in England for several months in a glass room constructed for the
purpose.  To the best of my knowledge he read ALL those available
. . .in great detail. . .and determined from the various changes,
that Shakespeare most likely did not write in nearly as many of a
variety of errors we credit him for, even though he was in/famous
for signing his name with several different spellings.

So, please take this into account when reading the comments below
made by our volunteer who prepared this file:  you may see errors
that are "not" errors. . . .

So. . .with this caveat. . .we have NOT changed the canon errors,
here is the Project Gutenberg Etext of Shakespeare's The Tragedie
of Hamlet.

Michael S. Hart
Project Gutenberg
Executive Director


***


Scanner's Notes: What this is and isn't.  This was taken from
a copy of Shakespeare's first folio and it is as close as I can
come in ASCII to the printed text.

The elongated S's have been changed to small s's and the
conjoined ae have been changed to ae.  I have left the spelling,
punctuation, capitalization as close as possible to the
printed text.  I have corrected some spelling mistakes (I have put
together a spelling dictionary devised from the spellings of the
Geneva Bible and Shakespeare's First Folio and have unified
spellings according to this template), typo's and expanded
abbreviations as I have come across them.  Everything within
brackets [] is what I have added.  So if you don't like that
you can delete everything within the brackets if you want a
purer Shakespeare.

Another thing that you should be aware of is that there are textual
differences between various copies of the first folio.  So there may
be differences (other than what I have mentioned above) between
this and other first folio editions.  This is due to the printer's
habit of setting the type and running off a number of copies and
then proofing the printed copy and correcting the type and then
continuing the printing run.  The proof run wasn't thrown away but
incorporated into the printed copies.  This is just the way it is.
The text I have used was a composite of more than 30 different
First Folio editions' best pages.

If you find any scanning errors, out and out typos, punctuation
errors, or if you disagree with my spelling choices please feel
free to email me those errors.  I wish to make this the best
etext possible.  My email address for right now are haradda@aol.com
and davidr@inconnect.com.  I hope that you enjoy this.

David Reed

The Tragedie of Hamlet

Actus Primus. Scoena Prima.

Enter Barnardo and Francisco two Centinels.

  Barnardo. Who's there?
  Fran. Nay answer me: Stand & vnfold
your selfe

   Bar. Long liue the King

   Fran. Barnardo?
  Bar. He

   Fran. You come most carefully vpon your houre

   Bar. 'Tis now strook twelue, get thee to bed Francisco

   Fran. For this releefe much thankes: 'Tis bitter cold,
And I am sicke at heart

   Barn. Haue you had quiet Guard?
  Fran. Not a Mouse stirring

   Barn. Well, goodnight. If you do meet Horatio and
Marcellus, the Riuals of my Watch, bid them make hast.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.

  Fran. I thinke I heare them. Stand: who's there?
  Hor. Friends to this ground

   Mar. And Leige-men to the Dane

   Fran. Giue you good night

   Mar. O farwel honest Soldier, who hath relieu'd you?
  Fra. Barnardo ha's my place: giue you goodnight.

Exit Fran.

  Mar. Holla Barnardo

   Bar. Say, what is Horatio there?
  Hor. A peece of him

   Bar. Welcome Horatio, welcome good Marcellus

   Mar. What, ha's this thing appear'd againe to night

   Bar. I haue seene nothing

   Mar. Horatio saies, 'tis but our Fantasie,
And will not let beleefe take hold of him
Touching this dreaded sight, twice seene of vs,
Therefore I haue intreated him along
With vs, to watch the minutes of this Night,
That if againe this Apparition come,
He may approue our eyes, and speake to it

   Hor. Tush, tush, 'twill not appeare

   Bar. Sit downe a-while,
And let vs once againe assaile your eares,
That are so fortified against our Story,
What we two Nights haue seene

   Hor. Well, sit we downe,
And let vs heare Barnardo speake of this

   Barn. Last night of all,
When yond same Starre that's Westward from the Pole
Had made his course t' illume that part of Heauen
Where now it burnes, Marcellus and my selfe,
The Bell then beating one

   Mar. Peace, breake thee of:
Enter the Ghost.

Looke where it comes againe

   Barn. In the same figure, like the King that's dead

   Mar. Thou art a Scholler; speake to it Horatio

   Barn. Lookes it not like the King? Marke it Horatio

   Hora. Most like: It harrowes me with fear & wonder
  Barn. It would be spoke too

   Mar. Question it Horatio

   Hor. What art thou that vsurp'st this time of night,
Together with that Faire and Warlike forme
In which the Maiesty of buried Denmarke
Did sometimes march: By Heauen I charge thee speake

   Mar. It is offended

   Barn. See, it stalkes away

   Hor. Stay: speake; speake: I Charge thee, speake.

Exit the Ghost.

  Mar. 'Tis gone, and will not answer

   Barn. How now Horatio? You tremble & look pale:
Is not this something more then Fantasie?
What thinke you on't?
  Hor. Before my God, I might not this beleeue
Without the sensible and true auouch
Of mine owne eyes

   Mar. Is it not like the King?
  Hor. As thou art to thy selfe,
Such was the very Armour he had on,
When th' Ambitious Norwey combatted:
So frown'd he once, when in an angry parle
He smot the sledded Pollax on the Ice.
'Tis strange

   Mar. Thus twice before, and iust at this dead houre,
With Martiall stalke, hath he gone by our Watch

   Hor. In what particular thought to work, I know not:
But in the grosse and scope of my Opinion,
This boades some strange erruption to our State

   Mar. Good now sit downe, & tell me he that knowes
Why this same strict and most obseruant Watch,
So nightly toyles the subiect of the Land,
And why such dayly Cast of Brazon Cannon
And Forraigne Mart for Implements of warre:
Why such impresse of Ship-wrights, whose sore Taske
Do's not diuide the Sunday from the weeke,
What might be toward, that this sweaty hast
Doth make the Night ioynt-Labourer with the day:
Who is't that can informe me?
  Hor. That can I,
At least the whisper goes so: Our last King,
Whose Image euen but now appear'd to vs,
Was (as you know) by Fortinbras of Norway,
(Thereto prick'd on by a most emulate Pride)
Dar'd to the Combate. In which, our Valiant Hamlet,
(For so this side of our knowne world esteem'd him)
Did slay this Fortinbras: who by a Seal'd Compact,
Well ratified by Law, and Heraldrie,
Did forfeite (with his life) all those his Lands
Which he stood seiz'd on, to the Conqueror:
Against the which, a Moity competent
Was gaged by our King: which had return'd
To the Inheritance of Fortinbras,
Had he bin Vanquisher, as by the same Cou'nant
And carriage of the Article designe,
His fell to Hamlet. Now sir, young Fortinbras,
Of vnimproued Mettle, hot and full,
Hath in the skirts of Norway, heere and there,
Shark'd vp a List of Landlesse Resolutes,
For Foode and Diet, to some Enterprize
That hath a stomacke in't: which is no other
(And it doth well appeare vnto our State)
But to recouer of vs by strong hand
And termes Compulsatiue, those foresaid Lands
So by his Father lost: and this (I take it)
Is the maine Motiue of our Preparations,
The Sourse of this our Watch, and the cheefe head
Of this post-hast, and Romage in the Land.
Enter Ghost againe.

But soft, behold: Loe, where it comes againe:
Ile crosse it, though it blast me. Stay Illusion:
If thou hast any sound, or vse of Voyce,
Speake to me. If there be any good thing to be done,
That may to thee do ease, and grace to me; speak to me.
If thou art priuy to thy Countries Fate
(Which happily foreknowing may auoyd) Oh speake.
Or, if thou hast vp-hoorded in thy life
Extorted Treasure in the wombe of Earth,
(For which, they say, you Spirits oft walke in death)
Speake of it. Stay, and speake. Stop it Marcellus

   Mar. Shall I strike at it with my Partizan?
  Hor. Do, if it will not stand

   Barn. 'Tis heere

   Hor. 'Tis heere

   Mar. 'Tis gone.

Exit Ghost.

We do it wrong, being so Maiesticall
To offer it the shew of Violence,
For it is as the Ayre, invulnerable,
And our vaine blowes, malicious Mockery

   Barn. It was about to speake, when the Cocke crew

   Hor. And then it started, like a guilty thing
Vpon a fearfull Summons. I haue heard,
The Cocke that is the Trumpet to the day,
Doth with his lofty and shrill-sounding Throate
Awake the God of Day: and at his warning,
Whether in Sea, or Fire, in Earth, or Ayre,
Th' extrauagant, and erring Spirit, hyes
To his Confine. And of the truth heerein,
This present Obiect made probation

   Mar. It faded on the crowing of the Cocke.
Some sayes, that euer 'gainst that Season comes
Wherein our Sauiours Birch is celebrated,
The Bird of Dawning singeth all night long:
And then (they say) no Spirit can walke abroad,
The nights are wholsome, then no Planets strike,
No Faiery talkes, nor Witch hath power to Charme:
So hallow'd, and so gracious is the time

   Hor. So haue I heard, and do in part beleeue it.
But looke, the Morne in Russet mantle clad,
Walkes o're the dew of yon high Easterne Hill,
Breake we our Watch vp, and by my aduice
Let vs impart what we haue seene to night
Vnto yong Hamlet. For vpon my life,
This Spirit dumbe to vs, will speake to him:
Do you consent we shall acquaint him with it,
As needfull in our Loues, fitting our Duty?
  Mar. Let do't I pray, and I this morning know
Where we shall finde him most conueniently.

Exeunt.

Scena Secunda.

Enter Claudius King of Denmarke, Gertrude the Queene, Hamlet,
Polonius,
Laertes, and his Sister Ophelia, Lords Attendant.

  King. Though yet of Hamlet our deere Brothers death
The memory be greene: and that it vs befitted
To beare our hearts in greefe, and our whole Kingdome
To be contracted in one brow of woe:
Yet so farre hath Discretion fought with Nature,
That we with wisest sorrow thinke on him,
Together with remembrance of our selues.
Therefore our sometimes Sister, now our Queene,
Th' imperiall Ioyntresse of this warlike State,
Haue we, as 'twere, with a defeated ioy,
With one Auspicious, and one Dropping eye,
With mirth in Funerall, and with Dirge in Marriage,
In equall Scale weighing Delight and Dole
Taken to Wife; nor haue we heerein barr'd
Your better Wisedomes, which haue freely gone
With this affaire along, for all our Thankes.
Now followes, that you know young Fortinbras,
Holding a weake supposall of our worth;
Or thinking by our late deere Brothers death,
Our State to be disioynt, and out of Frame,
Colleagued with the dreame of his Aduantage;
He hath not fayl'd to pester vs with Message,
Importing the surrender of those Lands
Lost by his Father: with all Bonds of Law
To our most valiant Brother. So much for him.
Enter Voltemand and Cornelius.

Now for our selfe, and for this time of meeting
Thus much the businesse is. We haue heere writ
To Norway, Vncle of young Fortinbras,
Who Impotent and Bedrid, scarsely heares
Of this his Nephewes purpose, to suppresse
His further gate heerein. In that the Leuies,
The Lists, and full proportions are all made
Out of his subiect: and we heere dispatch
You good Cornelius, and you Voltemand,
For bearing of this greeting to old Norway,
Giuing to you no further personall power
To businesse with the King, more then the scope
Of these dilated Articles allow:
Farewell, and let your hast commend your duty

   Volt. In that, and all things, will we shew our duty

   King. We doubt it nothing, heartily farewell.

Exit Voltemand and Cornelius.

And now Laertes, what's the newes with you?
You told vs of some suite. What is't Laertes?
You cannot speake of Reason to the Dane,
And loose your voyce. What would'st thou beg Laertes,
That shall not be my Offer, not thy Asking?
The Head is not more Natiue to the Heart,
The Hand more instrumentall to the Mouth,
Then is the Throne of Denmarke to thy Father.
What would'st thou haue Laertes?
  Laer. Dread my Lord,
Your leaue and fauour to returne to France,
From whence, though willingly I came to Denmarke
To shew my duty in your Coronation,
Yet now I must confesse, that duty done,
My thoughts and wishes bend againe towards France,
And bow them to your gracious leaue and pardon

   King. Haue you your Fathers leaue?
What sayes Pollonius?
  Pol. He hath my Lord:
I do beseech you giue him leaue to go

   King. Take thy faire houre Laertes, time be thine,
And thy best graces spend it at thy will:
But now my Cosin Hamlet, and my Sonne?
  Ham. A little more then kin, and lesse then kinde

   King. How is it that the Clouds still hang on you?
  Ham. Not so my Lord, I am too much i'th' Sun

   Queen. Good Hamlet cast thy nightly colour off,
And let thine eye looke like a Friend on Denmarke.
Do not for euer with thy veyled lids
Seeke for thy Noble Father in the dust;
Thou know'st 'tis common, all that liues must dye,
Passing through Nature, to Eternity

   Ham. I Madam, it is common

   Queen. If it be;
Why seemes it so particular with thee

   Ham. Seemes Madam? Nay, it is: I know not Seemes:
'Tis not alone my Inky Cloake (good Mother)
Nor Customary suites of solemne Blacke,
Nor windy suspiration of forc'd breath,
No, nor the fruitfull Riuer in the Eye,
Nor the deiected hauiour of the Visage,
Together with all Formes, Moods, shewes of Griefe,
That can denote me truly. These indeed Seeme,
For they are actions that a man might play:
But I haue that Within, which passeth show;
These, but the Trappings, and the Suites of woe

   King. 'Tis sweet and commendable
In your Nature Hamlet,
To giue these mourning duties to your Father:
But you must know, your Father lost a Father,
That Father lost, lost his, and the Suruiuer bound
In filiall Obligation, for some terme
To do obsequious Sorrow. But to perseuer
In obstinate Condolement, is a course
Of impious stubbornnesse. 'Tis vnmanly greefe,
It shewes a will most incorrect to Heauen,
A Heart vnfortified, a Minde impatient,
An Vnderstanding simple, and vnschool'd:
For, what we know must be, and is as common
As any the most vulgar thing to sence,
Why should we in our peeuish Opposition
Take it to heart? Fye, 'tis a fault to Heauen,
A fault against the Dead, a fault to Nature,
To Reason most absurd, whose common Theame
Is death of Fathers, and who still hath cried,
From the first Coarse, till he that dyed to day,
This must be so. We pray you throw to earth
This vnpreuayling woe, and thinke of vs
As of a Father; For let the world take note,
You are the most immediate to our Throne,
And with no lesse Nobility of Loue,
Then that which deerest Father beares his Sonne,
Do I impart towards you. For your intent
In going backe to Schoole in Wittenberg,
It is most retrograde to our desire:
And we beseech you, bend you to remaine
Heere in the cheere and comfort of our eye,
Our cheefest Courtier Cosin, and our Sonne

   Qu. Let not thy Mother lose her Prayers Hamlet:
I prythee stay with vs, go not to Wittenberg

   Ham. I shall in all my best
Obey you Madam

   King. Why 'tis a louing, and a faire Reply,
Be as our selfe in Denmarke. Madam come,
This gentle and vnforc'd accord of Hamlet
Sits smiling to my heart; in grace whereof,
No iocond health that Denmarke drinkes to day,
But the great Cannon to the Clowds shall tell,
And the Kings Rouce, the Heauens shall bruite againe,
Respeaking earthly Thunder. Come away.

Exeunt.

Manet Hamlet.

  Ham. Oh that this too too solid Flesh, would melt,
Thaw, and resolue it selfe into a Dew:
Or that the Euerlasting had not fixt
His Cannon 'gainst Selfe-slaughter. O God, O God!
How weary, stale, flat, and vnprofitable
Seemes to me all the vses of this world?
Fie on't? Oh fie, fie, 'tis an vnweeded Garden
That growes to Seed: Things rank, and grosse in Nature
Possesse it meerely. That it should come to this:
But two months dead: Nay, not so much; not two,
So excellent a King, that was to this
Hiperion to a Satyre: so louing to my Mother,
That he might not beteene the windes of heauen
Visit her face too roughly. Heauen and Earth
Must I remember: why she would hang on him,
As if encrease of Appetite had growne
By what is fed on; and yet within a month?
Let me not thinke on't: Frailty, thy name is woman.
A little Month, or ere those shooes were old,
With which she followed my poore Fathers body
Like Niobe, all teares. Why she, euen she.
(O Heauen! A beast that wants discourse of Reason
Would haue mourn'd longer) married with mine Vnkle,
My Fathers Brother: but no more like my Father,
Then I to Hercules. Within a Moneth?
Ere yet the salt of most vnrighteous Teares
Had left the flushing of her gauled eyes,
She married. O most wicked speed, to post
With such dexterity to Incestuous sheets:
It is not, nor it cannot come to good.
But breake my heart, for I must hold my tongue.
Enter Horatio, Barnardo, and Marcellus.

  Hor. Haile to your Lordship

   Ham. I am glad to see you well:
Horatio, or I do forget my selfe

   Hor. The same my Lord,
And your poore Seruant euer

   Ham. Sir my good friend,
Ile change that name with you:
And what make you from Wittenberg Horatio?
Marcellus

   Mar. My good Lord

   Ham. I am very glad to see you: good euen Sir.
But what in faith make you from Wittemberge?
  Hor. A truant disposition, good my Lord

   Ham. I would not haue your Enemy say so;
Nor shall you doe mine eare that violence,
To make it truster of your owne report
Against your selfe. I know you are no Truant:
But what is your affaire in Elsenour?
Wee'l teach you to drinke deepe, ere you depart

   Hor. My Lord, I came to see your Fathers Funerall

   Ham. I pray thee doe not mock me (fellow Student)
I thinke it was to see my Mothers Wedding

   Hor. Indeed my Lord, it followed hard vpon

   Ham. Thrift thrift Horatio: the Funerall Bakt-meats
Did coldly furnish forth the Marriage Tables;
Would I had met my dearest foe in heauen,
Ere I had euer seene that day Horatio.
My father, me thinkes I see my father

   Hor. Oh where my Lord?
  Ham. In my minds eye (Horatio)
  Hor. I saw him once; he was a goodly King

   Ham. He was a man, take him for all in all:
I shall not look vpon his like againe

   Hor. My Lord, I thinke I saw him yesternight

   Ham. Saw? Who?
  Hor. My Lord, the King your Father

   Ham. The King my Father?
  Hor. Season your admiration for a while
With an attent eare; till I may deliuer
Vpon the witnesse of these Gentlemen,
This maruell to you

   Ham. For Heauens loue let me heare

   Hor. Two nights together, had these Gentlemen
(Marcellus and Barnardo) on their Watch
In the dead wast and middle of the night
Beene thus encountred. A figure like your Father,
Arm'd at all points exactly, Cap a Pe,
Appeares before them, and with sollemne march
Goes slow and stately: By them thrice he walkt,
By their opprest and feare-surprized eyes,
Within his Truncheons length; whilst they bestil'd
Almost to Ielly with the Act of feare,
Stand dumbe and speake not to him. This to me
In dreadfull secrecie impart they did,
And I with them the third Night kept the Watch,
Whereas they had deliuer'd both in time,
Forme of the thing; each word made true and good,
The Apparition comes. I knew your Father:
These hands are not more like

   Ham. But where was this?
  Mar. My Lord vpon the platforme where we watcht

   Ham. Did you not speake to it?
  Hor. My Lord, I did;
But answere made it none: yet once me thought
It lifted vp it head, and did addresse
It selfe to motion, like as it would speake:
But euen then, the Morning Cocke crew lowd;
And at the sound it shrunke in hast away,
And vanisht from our sight

   Ham. Tis very strange

   Hor. As I doe liue my honourd Lord 'tis true;
And we did thinke it writ downe in our duty
To let you know of it

   Ham. Indeed, indeed Sirs; but this troubles me.
Hold you the watch to Night?
  Both. We doe my Lord

   Ham. Arm'd, say you?
  Both. Arm'd, my Lord

   Ham. From top to toe?
  Both. My Lord, from head to foote

   Ham. Then saw you not his face?
  Hor. O yes, my Lord, he wore his Beauer vp

   Ham. What, lookt he frowningly?
  Hor. A countenance more in sorrow then in anger

   Ham. Pale, or red?
  Hor. Nay very pale

   Ham. And fixt his eyes vpon you?
  Hor. Most constantly

   Ham. I would I had beene there

   Hor. It would haue much amaz'd you

   Ham. Very like, very like: staid it long?
  Hor. While one with moderate hast might tell a hundred

   All. Longer, longer

   Hor. Not when I saw't

   Ham. His Beard was grisly? no

   Hor. It was, as I haue seene it in his life,
A Sable Siluer'd

   Ham. Ile watch to Night; perchance 'twill wake againe

   Hor. I warrant you it will

   Ham. If it assume my noble Fathers person,
Ile speake to it, though Hell it selfe should gape
And bid me hold my peace. I pray you all,
If you haue hitherto conceald this sight;
Let it bee treble in your silence still:
And whatsoeuer els shall hap to night,
Giue it an vnderstanding but no tongue;
I will requite your loues; so fare ye well:
Vpon the Platforme twixt eleuen and twelue,
Ile visit you

   All. Our duty to your Honour.

Exeunt

   Ham. Your loue, as mine to you: farewell.
My Fathers Spirit in Armes? All is not well:
I doubt some foule play: would the Night were come;
Till then sit still my soule; foule deeds will rise,
Though all the earth orewhelm them to mens eies.
Enter.


Scena Tertia


Enter Laertes and Ophelia.

  Laer. My necessaries are imbark't; Farewell:
And Sister, as the Winds giue Benefit,
And Conuoy is assistant; doe not sleepe,
But let me heare from you

   Ophel. Doe you doubt that?
  Laer. For Hamlet, and the trifling of his fauours,
Hold it a fashion and a toy in Bloude;
A Violet in the youth of Primy Nature;
Froward, not permanent; sweet not lasting
The suppliance of a minute? No more

   Ophel. No more but so

   Laer. Thinke it no more:
For nature cressant does not grow alone,
In thewes and Bulke: but as his Temple waxes,
The inward seruice of the Minde and Soule
Growes wide withall. Perhaps he loues you now,
And now no soyle nor cautell doth besmerch
The vertue of his feare: but you must feare
His greatnesse weigh'd, his will is not his owne;
For hee himselfe is subiect to his Birth:
Hee may not, as vnuallued persons doe,
Carue for himselfe; for, on his choyce depends
The sanctity and health of the whole State.
And therefore must his choyce be circumscrib'd
Vnto the voyce and yeelding of that Body,
Whereof he is the Head. Then if he sayes he loues you,
It fits your wisedome so farre to beleeue it;
As he in his peculiar Sect and force
May giue his saying deed: which is no further,
Then the maine voyce of Denmarke goes withall.
Then weight what losse your Honour may sustaine,
If with too credent eare you list his Songs;
Or lose your Heart; or your chast Treasure open
To his vnmastred importunity.
Feare it Ophelia, feare it my deare Sister,
And keepe within the reare of your Affection;
Out of the shot and danger of Desire.
The chariest Maid is Prodigall enough,
If she vnmaske her beauty to the Moone:
Vertue it selfe scapes not calumnious stroakes,
The Canker Galls, the Infants of the Spring
Too oft before the buttons be disclos'd,
And in the Morne and liquid dew of Youth,
Contagious blastments are most imminent.
Be wary then, best safety lies in feare;
Youth to it selfe rebels, though none else neere

   Ophe. I shall th' effect of this good Lesson keepe,
As watchmen to my heart: but good my Brother
Doe not as some vngracious Pastors doe,
Shew me the steepe and thorny way to Heauen;
Whilst like a puft and recklesse Libertine
Himselfe, the Primrose path of dalliance treads,
And reaks not his owne reade

   Laer. Oh, feare me not.
Enter Polonius.

I stay too long; but here my Father comes:
A double blessing is a double grace;
Occasion smiles vpon a second leaue

   Polon. Yet heere Laertes? Aboord, aboord for shame,
The winde sits in the shoulder of your saile,
And you are staid for there: my blessing with you;
And these few Precepts in thy memory,
See thou Character. Giue thy thoughts no tongue,
Nor any vnproportion'd thoughts his Act:
Be thou familiar; but by no meanes vulgar:
The friends thou hast, and their adoption tride,
Grapple them to thy Soule, with hoopes of Steele:
But doe not dull thy palme, with entertainment
Of each vnhatch't, vnfledg'd Comrade. Beware
Of entrance to a quarrell: but being in
Bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee.
Giue euery man thine eare; but few thy voyce:
Take each mans censure; but reserue thy iudgement:
Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy;
But not exprest in fancie; rich, not gawdie:
For the Apparell oft proclaimes the man.
And they in France of the best ranck and station,
Are of a most select and generous cheff in that.
Neither a borrower, nor a lender be;
For lone oft loses both it selfe and friend:
And borrowing duls the edge of Husbandry.
This aboue all; to thine owne selfe be true:
And it must follow, as the Night the Day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.
Farewell: my Blessing season this in thee

   Laer. Most humbly doe I take my leaue, my Lord

   Polon. The time inuites you, goe, your seruants tend

   Laer. Farewell Ophelia, and remember well
What I haue said to you

   Ophe. Tis in my memory lockt,
And you your selfe shall keepe the key of it

   Laer. Farewell.

Exit Laer.

  Polon. What ist Ophelia he hath said to you?
  Ophe. So please you, somthing touching the L[ord]. Hamlet

   Polon. Marry, well bethought:
Tis told me he hath very oft of late
Giuen priuate time to you; and you your selfe
Haue of your audience beene most free and bounteous.
If it be so, as so tis put on me;
And that in way of caution: I must tell you,
You doe not vnderstand your selfe so cleerely,
As it behoues my Daughter, and your Honour.
What is betweene you, giue me vp the truth?
  Ophe. He hath my Lord of late, made many tenders
Of his affection to me

   Polon. Affection, puh. You speake like a greene Girle,
Vnsifted in such perillous Circumstance.
Doe you beleeue his tenders, as you call them?
  Ophe. I do not know, my Lord, what I should thinke

   Polon. Marry Ile teach you; thinke your selfe a Baby,
That you haue tane his tenders for true pay,
Which are not starling. Tender your selfe more dearly;
Or not to crack the winde of the poore Phrase,
Roaming it thus, you'l tender me a foole

   Ophe. My Lord, he hath importun'd me with loue,
In honourable fashion

   Polon. I, fashion you may call it, go too, go too

   Ophe. And hath giuen countenance to his speech,
My Lord, with all the vowes of Heauen

   Polon. I, Springes to catch Woodcocks. I doe know
When the Bloud burnes, how Prodigall the Soule
Giues the tongue vowes: these blazes, Daughter,
Giuing more light then heate; extinct in both,
Euen in their promise, as it is a making;
You must not take for fire. For this time Daughter,
Be somewhat scanter of your Maiden presence;
Set your entreatments at a higher rate,
Then a command to parley. For Lord Hamlet,
Beleeue so much in him, that he is young,
And with a larger tether may he walke,
Then may be giuen you. In few, Ophelia,
Doe not beleeue his vowes; for they are Broakers,
Not of the eye, which their Inuestments show:
But meere implorators of vnholy Sutes,
Breathing like sanctified and pious bonds,
The better to beguile. This is for all:
I would not, in plaine tearmes, from this time forth,
Haue you so slander any moment leisure,
As to giue words or talke with the Lord Hamlet:
Looke too't, I charge you; come your wayes

   Ophe. I shall obey my Lord.

Exeunt.

Enter Hamlet, Horatio, Marcellus.

  Ham. The Ayre bites shrewdly: is it very cold?
  Hor. It is a nipping and an eager ayre

   Ham. What hower now?
  Hor. I thinke it lacks of twelue

   Mar. No, it is strooke

   Hor. Indeed I heard it not: then it drawes neere the season,
Wherein the Spirit held his wont to walke.
What does this meane my Lord?
  Ham. The King doth wake to night, and takes his rouse,
Keepes wassels and the swaggering vpspring reeles,
And as he dreines his draughts of Renish downe,
The kettle Drum and Trumpet thus bray out
The triumph of his Pledge

   Horat. Is it a custome?
  Ham. I marry ist;
And to my mind, though I am natiue heere,
And to the manner borne: It is a Custome
More honour'd in the breach, then the obseruance.
Enter Ghost.

  Hor. Looke my Lord, it comes

   Ham. Angels and Ministers of Grace defend vs:
Be thou a Spirit of health, or Goblin damn'd,
Bring with thee ayres from Heauen, or blasts from Hell,
Be thy euents wicked or charitable,
Thou com'st in such a questionable shape
That I will speake to thee. Ile call thee Hamlet,
King, Father, Royall Dane: Oh, oh, answer me,
Let me not burst in Ignorance; but tell
Why thy Canoniz'd bones Hearsed in death,
Haue burst their cerments, why the Sepulcher
Wherein we saw thee quietly enurn'd,
Hath op'd his ponderous and Marble iawes,
To cast thee vp againe? What may this meane?
That thou dead Coarse againe in compleat steele,
Reuisits thus the glimpses of the Moone,
Making Night hidious? And we fooles of Nature,
So horridly to shake our disposition,
With thoughts beyond thee; reaches of our Soules,
Say, why is this? wherefore? what should we doe?

Ghost beckens Hamlet.

  Hor. It beckons you to goe away with it,
As if it some impartment did desire
To you alone

   Mar. Looke with what courteous action
It wafts you to a more remoued ground:
But doe not goe with it

   Hor. No, by no meanes

   Ham. It will not speake: then will I follow it

   Hor. Doe not my Lord

   Ham. Why, what should be the feare?
I doe not set my life at a pins fee;
And for my Soule, what can it doe to that?
Being a thing immortall as it selfe:
It waues me forth againe; Ile follow it

   Hor. What if it tempt you toward the Floud my Lord?
Or to the dreadfull Sonnet of the Cliffe,
That beetles o're his base into the Sea,
And there assumes some other horrible forme,
Which might depriue your Soueraignty of Reason,
And draw you into madnesse thinke of it?
  Ham. It wafts me still: goe on, Ile follow thee

   Mar. You shall not goe my Lord

   Ham. Hold off your hand

   Hor. Be rul'd, you shall not goe

   Ham. My fate cries out,
And makes each petty Artire in this body,
As hardy as the Nemian Lions nerue:
Still am I cal'd? Vnhand me Gentlemen:
By Heau'n, Ile make a Ghost of him that lets me:
I say away, goe on, Ile follow thee.

Exeunt. Ghost & Hamlet.

  Hor. He waxes desperate with imagination

   Mar. Let's follow; 'tis not fit thus to obey him

   Hor. Haue after, to what issue will this come?
  Mar. Something is rotten in the State of Denmarke

   Hor. Heauen will direct it

   Mar. Nay, let's follow him.

Exeunt.

Enter Ghost and Hamlet.

  Ham. Where wilt thou lead me? speak; Ile go no further

   Gho. Marke me

   Ham. I will

   Gho. My hower is almost come,
When I to sulphurous and tormenting Flames
Must render vp my selfe

   Ham. Alas poore Ghost

   Gho. Pitty me not, but lend thy serious hearing
To what I shall vnfold

   Ham. Speake, I am bound to heare

   Gho. So art thou to reuenge, when thou shalt heare

   Ham. What?
  Gho. I am thy Fathers Spirit,
Doom'd for a certaine terme to walke the night;
And for the day confin'd to fast in Fiers,
Till the foule crimes done in my dayes of Nature
Are burnt and purg'd away? But that I am forbid
To tell the secrets of my Prison-House;
I could a Tale vnfold, whose lightest word
Would harrow vp thy soule, freeze thy young blood,
Make thy two eyes like Starres, start from their Spheres,
Thy knotty and combined lockes to part,
And each particular haire to stand an end,
Like Quilles vpon the fretfull Porpentine:
But this eternall blason must not be
To eares of flesh and bloud; list Hamlet, oh list,
If thou didst euer thy deare Father loue

   Ham. Oh Heauen!
  Gho. Reuenge his foule and most vnnaturall Murther

   Ham. Murther?
  Ghost. Murther most foule, as in the best it is;
But this most foule, strange, and vnnaturall

   Ham. Hast, hast me to know it,
That with wings as swift
As meditation, or the thoughts of Loue,
May sweepe to my Reuenge

   Ghost. I finde thee apt,
And duller should'st thou be then the fat weede
That rots it selfe in ease, on Lethe Wharfe,
Would'st thou not stirre in this. Now Hamlet heare:
It's giuen out, that sleeping in mine Orchard,
A Serpent stung me: so the whole eare of Denmarke,
Is by a forged processe of my death
Rankly abus'd: But know thou Noble youth,
The Serpent that did sting thy Fathers life,
Now weares his Crowne

   Ham. O my Propheticke soule: mine Vncle?
  Ghost. I that incestuous, that adulterate Beast
With witchcraft of his wits, hath Traitorous guifts.
Oh wicked Wit, and Gifts, that haue the power
So to seduce? Won to this shamefull Lust
The will of my most seeming vertuous Queene:
Oh Hamlet, what a falling off was there,
From me, whose loue was of that dignity,
That it went hand in hand, euen with the Vow
I made to her in Marriage; and to decline
Vpon a wretch, whose Naturall gifts were poore
To those of mine. But Vertue, as it neuer wil be moued,
Though Lewdnesse court it in a shape of Heauen:
So Lust, though to a radiant Angell link'd,
Will sate it selfe in a Celestiall bed, & prey on Garbage.
But soft, me thinkes I sent the Mornings Ayre;
Briefe let me be: Sleeping within mine Orchard,
My custome alwayes in the afternoone;
Vpon my secure hower thy Vncle stole
With iuyce of cursed Hebenon in a Violl,
And in the Porches of mine eares did poure
The leaperous Distilment; whose effect
Holds such an enmity with bloud of Man,
That swift as Quick-siluer, it courses through
The naturall Gates and Allies of the body;
And with a sodaine vigour it doth posset
And curd, like Aygre droppings into Milke,
The thin and wholsome blood: so did it mine;
And a most instant Tetter bak'd about,
Most Lazar-like, with vile and loathsome crust,
All my smooth Body.
Thus was I, sleeping, by a Brothers hand,
Of Life, of Crowne, and Queene at once dispatcht;
Cut off euen in the Blossomes of my Sinne,
Vnhouzzled, disappointed, vnnaneld,
No reckoning made, but sent to my account
With all my imperfections on my head;
Oh horrible Oh horrible, most horrible:
If thou hast nature in thee beare it not;
Let not the Royall Bed of Denmarke be
A Couch for Luxury and damned Incest.
But howsoeuer thou pursuest this Act,
Taint not thy mind; nor let thy Soule contriue
Against thy Mother ought; leaue her to heauen,
And to those Thornes that in her bosome lodge,
To pricke and sting her. Fare thee well at once;
The Glow-worme showes the Matine to be neere,
And gins to pale his vneffectuall Fire:
Adue, adue, Hamlet: remember me.
Enter.

  Ham. Oh all you host of Heauen! Oh Earth; what els?
And shall I couple Hell? Oh fie: hold my heart;
And you my sinnewes, grow not instant Old;
But beare me stiffely vp: Remember thee?
I, thou poore Ghost, while memory holds a seate
In this distracted Globe: Remember thee?
Yea, from the Table of my Memory,
Ile wipe away all triuiall fond Records,
All sawes of Bookes, all formes, all presures past,
That youth and obseruation coppied there;
And thy Commandment all alone shall liue
Within the Booke and Volume of my Braine,
Vnmixt with baser matter; yes yes, by Heauen:
Oh most pernicious woman!
Oh Villaine, Villaine, smiling damned Villaine!
My Tables, my Tables; meet it is I set it downe,
That one may smile, and smile and be a Villaine;
At least I'm sure it may be so in Denmarke;
So Vnckle there you are: now to my word;
It is; Adue, Adue, Remember me: I haue sworn't

   Hor. & Mar. within. My Lord, my Lord.
Enter Horatio and Marcellus.

  Mar. Lord Hamlet

   Hor. Heauen secure him

   Mar. So be it

   Hor. Illo, ho, ho, my Lord

   Ham. Hillo, ho, ho, boy; come bird, come

   Mar. How ist my Noble Lord?
  Hor. What newes, my Lord?
  Ham. Oh wonderfull!
  Hor. Good my Lord tell it

   Ham. No you'l reueale it

   Hor. Not I, my Lord, by Heauen

   Mar. Nor I, my Lord

   Ham. How say you then, would heart of man once think it?
But you'l be secret?
  Both. I, by Heau'n, my Lord

   Ham. There's nere a villaine dwelling in all Denmarke
But hee's an arrant knaue

   Hor. There needs no Ghost my Lord, come from the
Graue, to tell vs this

   Ham. Why right, you are i'th' right;
And so, without more circumstance at all,
I hold it fit that we shake hands, and part:
You, as your busines and desires shall point you:
For euery man ha's businesse and desire,
Such as it is: and for mine owne poore part,
Looke you, Ile goe pray

   Hor. These are but wild and hurling words, my Lord

   Ham. I'm sorry they offend you heartily:
Yes faith, heartily

   Hor. There's no offence my Lord

   Ham. Yes, by Saint Patricke, but there is my Lord,
And much offence too, touching this Vision heere:
It is an honest Ghost, that let me tell you:
For your desire to know what is betweene vs,
O'remaster't as you may. And now good friends,
As you are Friends, Schollers and Soldiers,
Giue me one poore request

   Hor. What is't my Lord? we will

   Ham. Neuer make known what you haue seen to night

   Both. My Lord, we will not

   Ham. Nay, but swear't

   Hor. Infaith my Lord, not I

   Mar. Nor I my Lord: in faith

   Ham. Vpon my sword

   Marcell. We haue sworne my Lord already

   Ham. Indeed, vpon my sword, Indeed

   Gho. Sweare.

Ghost cries vnder the Stage.

  Ham. Ah ha boy, sayest thou so. Art thou there truepenny?
Come one you here this fellow in the selleredge
Consent to sweare

   Hor. Propose the Oath my Lord

   Ham. Neuer to speake of this that you haue seene.
Sweare by my sword

   Gho. Sweare

   Ham. Hic & vbique? Then wee'l shift for grownd,
Come hither Gentlemen,
And lay your hands againe vpon my sword,
Neuer to speake of this that you haue heard:
Sweare by my Sword

   Gho. Sweare

   Ham. Well said old Mole, can'st worke i'th' ground so fast?
A worthy Pioner, once more remoue good friends

   Hor. Oh day and night: but this is wondrous strange

   Ham. And therefore as a stranger giue it welcome.
There are more things in Heauen and Earth, Horatio,
Then are dream't of in our Philosophy. But come,
Here as before, neuer so helpe you mercy,
How strange or odde so ere I beare my selfe;
(As I perchance heereafter shall thinke meet
To put an Anticke disposition on:)
That you at such time seeing me, neuer shall
With Armes encombred thus, or thus, head shake;
Or by pronouncing of some doubtfull Phrase;
As well, we know, or we could and if we would,
Or if we list to speake; or there be and if there might,
Or such ambiguous giuing out to note,
That you know ought of me; this not to doe:
So grace and mercy at your most neede helpe you:
Sweare

   Ghost. Sweare

   Ham. Rest, rest perturbed Spirit: so Gentlemen,
With all my loue I doe commend me to you;
And what so poore a man as Hamlet is,
May doe t' expresse his loue and friending to you,
God willing shall not lacke: let vs goe in together,
And still your fingers on your lippes I pray,
The time is out of ioynt: Oh cursed spight,
That euer I was borne to set it right.
Nay, come let's goe together.

Exeunt.


Actus Secundus.

Enter Polonius, and Reynoldo.

  Polon. Giue him his money, and these notes Reynoldo

   Reynol. I will my Lord

   Polon. You shall doe maruels wisely: good Reynoldo,
Before you visite him you make inquiry
Of his behauiour

   Reynol. My Lord, I did intend it

   Polon. Marry, well said;
Very well said. Looke you Sir,
Enquire me first what Danskers are in Paris;
And how, and who; what meanes; and where they keepe:
What company, at what expence: and finding
By this encompassement and drift of question,
That they doe know my sonne: Come you more neerer
Then your particular demands will touch it,
Take you as 'twere some distant knowledge of him,
And thus I know his father and his friends,
And in part him. Doe you marke this Reynoldo?
  Reynol. I, very well my Lord

   Polon. And in part him, but you may say not well;
But if't be hee I meane, hees very wilde;
Addicted so and so; and there put on him
What forgeries you please; marry, none so ranke,
As may dishonour him; take heed of that:
But Sir, such wanton, wild, and vsuall slips,
As are Companions noted and most knowne
To youth and liberty

   Reynol. As gaming my Lord

   Polon. I, or drinking, fencing, swearing,
Quarelling, drabbing. You may goe so farre

   Reynol. My Lord that would dishonour him

   Polon. Faith no, as you may season it in the charge;
You must not put another scandall on him,
That hee is open to Incontinencie;
That's not my meaning: but breath his faults so quaintly,
That they may seeme the taints of liberty;
The flash and out-breake of a fiery minde,
A sauagenes in vnreclaim'd bloud of generall assault

   Reynol. But my good Lord

   Polon. Wherefore should you doe this?
  Reynol. I my Lord, I would know that

   Polon. Marry Sir, heere's my drift,
And I belieue it is a fetch of warrant:
You laying these slight sulleyes on my Sonne,
As 'twere a thing a little soil'd i'th' working:
Marke you your party in conuerse; him you would sound,
Hauing euer seene. In the prenominate crimes,
The youth you breath of guilty, be assur'd
He closes with you in this consequence:
Good sir, or so, or friend, or Gentleman.
According to the Phrase and the Addition,
Of man and Country

   Reynol. Very good my Lord

   Polon. And then Sir does he this?
He does: what was I about to say?
I was about say somthing: where did I leaue?
  Reynol. At closes in the consequence:
At friend, or so, and Gentleman

   Polon. At closes in the consequence, I marry,
He closes with you thus. I know the Gentleman,
I saw him yesterday, or tother day;
Or then or then, with such and such; and as you say,
There was he gaming, there o'retooke in's Rouse,
There falling out at Tennis; or perchance,
I saw him enter such a house of saile;
Videlicet, a Brothell, or so forth. See you now;
Your bait of falshood, takes this Cape of truth;
And thus doe we of wisedome and of reach
With windlesses, and with assaies of Bias,
By indirections finde directions out:
So by my former Lecture and aduice
Shall you my Sonne; you haue me, haue you not?
  Reynol. My Lord I haue

   Polon. God buy you; fare you well

   Reynol. Good my Lord

   Polon. Obserue his inclination in your selfe

   Reynol. I shall my Lord

   Polon. And let him plye his Musicke

   Reynol. Well, my Lord.
Enter.

Enter Ophelia.

  Polon. Farewell:
How now Ophelia, what's the matter?
  Ophe. Alas my Lord, I haue beene so affrighted

   Polon. With what, in the name of Heauen?
  Ophe. My Lord, as I was sowing in my Chamber,
Lord Hamlet with his doublet all vnbrac'd,
No hat vpon his head, his stockings foul'd,
Vngartred, and downe giued to his Anckle,
Pale as his shirt, his knees knocking each other,
And with a looke so pitious in purport,
As if he had been loosed out of hell,
To speake of horrors: he comes before me

   Polon. Mad for thy Loue?
  Ophe. My Lord, I doe not know: but truly I do feare it

   Polon. What said he?
  Ophe. He tooke me by the wrist, and held me hard;
Then goes he to the length of all his arme;
And with his other hand thus o're his brow,
He fals to such perusall of my face,
As he would draw it. Long staid he so,
At last, a little shaking of mine Arme:
And thrice his head thus wauing vp and downe;
He rais'd a sigh, so pittious and profound,
That it did seeme to shatter all his bulke,
And end his being. That done, he lets me goe,
And with his head ouer his shoulders turn'd,
He seem'd to finde his way without his eyes,
For out adores he went without their helpe;
And to the last, bended their light on me

   Polon. Goe with me, I will goe seeke the King,
This is the very extasie of Loue,
Whose violent property foredoes it selfe,
And leads the will to desperate Vndertakings,
As oft as any passion vnder Heauen,
That does afflict our Natures. I am sorrie,
What haue you giuen him any hard words of late?
  Ophe. No my good Lord: but as you did command,
I did repell his Letters, and deny'de
His accesse to me

   Pol. That hath made him mad.
I am sorrie that with better speed and iudgement
I had not quoted him. I feare he did but trifle,
And meant to wracke thee: but beshrew my iealousie:
It seemes it is as proper to our Age,
To cast beyond our selues in our Opinions,
As it is common for the yonger sort
To lacke discretion. Come, go we to the King,
This must be knowne, being kept close might moue
More greefe to hide, then hate to vtter loue.

Exeunt.


Scena Secunda.

Enter King, Queene, Rosincrane, and Guildensterne Cum alijs.

  King. Welcome deere Rosincrance and Guildensterne.
Moreouer, that we much did long to see you,
The neede we haue to vse you, did prouoke
Our hastie sending. Something haue you heard
Of Hamlets transformation: so I call it,
Since not th' exterior, nor the inward man
Resembles that it was. What it should bee
More then his Fathers death, that thus hath put him
So much from th' vnderstanding of himselfe,
I cannot deeme of. I intreat you both,
That being of so young dayes brought vp with him:
And since so Neighbour'd to his youth, and humour,
That you vouchsafe your rest heere in our Court
Some little time: so by your Companies
To draw him on to pleasures, and to gather
So much as from Occasions you may gleane,
That open'd lies within our remedie

   Qu. Good Gentlemen, he hath much talk'd of you,
And sure I am, two men there are not liuing,
To whom he more adheres. If it will please you
To shew vs so much Gentrie, and good will,
As to expend your time with vs a-while,
For the supply and profit of our Hope,
Your Visitation shall receiue such thankes
As fits a Kings remembrance

   Rosin. Both your Maiesties
Might by the Soueraigne power you haue of vs,
Put your dread pleasures, more into Command
Then to Entreatie

   Guil. We both obey,
And here giue vp our selues, in the full bent,
To lay our Seruices freely at your feete,
To be commanded

   King. Thankes Rosincrance, and gentle Guildensterne

   Qu. Thankes Guildensterne and gentle Rosincrance.
And I beseech you instantly to visit
My too much changed Sonne.
Go some of ye,
And bring the Gentlemen where Hamlet is

   Guil. Heauens make our presence and our practises
Pleasant and helpfull to him.
Enter.

  Queene. Amen.
Enter Polonius.

  Pol. Th' Ambassadors from Norwey, my good Lord,
Are ioyfully return'd

   King. Thou still hast bin the father of good Newes

   Pol. Haue I, my Lord? Assure you, my good Liege,
I hold my dutie, as I hold my Soule,
Both to my God, one to my gracious King:
And I do thinke, or else this braine of mine
Hunts not the traile of Policie, so sure
As I haue vs'd to do: that I haue found
The very cause of Hamlets Lunacie

   King. Oh speake of that, that I do long to heare

   Pol. Giue first admittance to th' Ambassadors,
My Newes shall be the Newes to that great Feast

   King. Thy selfe do grace to them, and bring them in.
He tels me my sweet Queene, that he hath found
The head and sourse of all your Sonnes distemper

   Qu. I doubt it is no other, but the maine,
His Fathers death, and our o're-hasty Marriage.
Enter Polonius, Voltumand, and Cornelius.

  King. Well, we shall sift him. Welcome good Frends:
Say Voltumand, what from our Brother Norwey?
  Volt. Most faire returne of Greetings, and Desires.
Vpon our first, he sent out to suppresse
His Nephewes Leuies, which to him appear'd
To be a preparation 'gainst the Poleak:
But better look'd into, he truly found
It was against your Highnesse, whereat greeued,
That so his Sicknesse, Age, and Impotence
Was falsely borne in hand, sends out Arrests
On Fortinbras, which he (in breefe) obeyes,
Receiues rebuke from Norwey: and in fine,
Makes Vow before his Vnkle, neuer more
To giue th' assay of Armes against your Maiestie.
Whereon old Norwey, ouercome with ioy,
Giues him three thousand Crownes in Annuall Fee,
And his Commission to imploy those Soldiers
So leuied as before, against the Poleak:
With an intreaty heerein further shewne,
That it might please you to giue quiet passe
Through your Dominions, for his Enterprize,
On such regards of safety and allowance,
As therein are set downe

   King. It likes vs well:
And at our more consider'd time wee'l read,
Answer, and thinke vpon this Businesse.
Meane time we thanke you, for your well-tooke Labour.
Go to your rest, at night wee'l Feast together.
Most welcome home.

Exit Ambass.

  Pol. This businesse is very well ended.
My Liege, and Madam, to expostulate
What Maiestie should be, what Dutie is,
Why day is day; night, night; and time is time,
Were nothing but to waste Night, Day, and Time.
Therefore, since Breuitie is the Soule of Wit,
And tediousnesse, the limbes and outward flourishes,
I will be breefe. Your Noble Sonne is mad:
Mad call I it; for to define true Madnesse,
What is't, but to be nothing else but mad.
But let that go

   Qu. More matter, with lesse Art

   Pol. Madam, I sweare I vse no Art at all:
That he is mad, 'tis true: 'Tis true 'tis pittie,
And pittie it is true: A foolish figure,
But farewell it: for I will vse no Art.
Mad let vs grant him then: and now remaines
That we finde out the cause of this effect,
Or rather say, the cause of this defect;
For this effect defectiue, comes by cause,
Thus it remaines, and the remainder thus. Perpend,
I haue a daughter: haue, whil'st she is mine,
Who in her Dutie and Obedience, marke,
Hath giuen me this: now gather, and surmise.

The Letter.

To the Celestiall, and my Soules Idoll, the most beautifed Ophelia.
That's an ill Phrase, a vilde Phrase, beautified is a vilde
Phrase: but you shall heare these in her excellent white
bosome, these

   Qu. Came this from Hamlet to her

   Pol. Good Madam stay awhile, I will be faithfull.
Doubt thou, the Starres are fire,
Doubt, that the Sunne doth moue:
Doubt Truth to be a Lier,
But neuer Doubt, I loue.
O deere Ophelia, I am ill at these Numbers: I haue not Art to
reckon my grones; but that I loue thee best, oh most Best beleeue
it. Adieu.
Thine euermore most deere Lady, whilst this
Machine is to him, Hamlet.
This in Obedience hath my daughter shew'd me:
And more aboue hath his soliciting,
As they fell out by Time, by Meanes, and Place,
All giuen to mine eare

   King. But how hath she receiu'd his Loue?
  Pol. What do you thinke of me?
  King. As of a man, faithfull and Honourable

   Pol. I wold faine proue so. But what might you think?
When I had seene this hot loue on the wing,
As I perceiued it, I must tell you that
Before my Daughter told me what might you
Or my deere Maiestie your Queene heere, think,
If I had playd the Deske or Table-booke,
Or giuen my heart a winking, mute and dumbe,
Or look'd vpon this Loue, with idle sight,
What might you thinke? No, I went round to worke,
And (my yong Mistris) thus I did bespeake
Lord Hamlet is a Prince out of thy Starre,
This must not be: and then, I Precepts gaue her,
That she should locke her selfe from his Resort,
Admit no Messengers, receiue no Tokens:
Which done, she tooke the Fruites of my Aduice,
And he repulsed. A short Tale to make,
Fell into a Sadnesse, then into a Fast,
Thence to a Watch, thence into a Weaknesse,
Thence to a Lightnesse, and by this declension
Into the Madnesse whereon now he raues,
And all we waile for

   King. Do you thinke 'tis this?
  Qu. It may be very likely

   Pol. Hath there bene such a time, I'de fain know that,
That I haue possitiuely said, 'tis so,
When it prou'd otherwise?
  King. Not that I know

   Pol. Take this from this; if this be otherwise,
If Circumstances leade me, I will finde
Where truth is hid, though it were hid indeede
Within the Center

   King. How may we try it further?
  Pol. You know sometimes
He walkes foure houres together, heere
In the Lobby

   Qu. So he ha's indeed

   Pol. At such a time Ile loose my Daughter to him,
Be you and I behinde an Arras then,
Marke the encounter: If he loue her not,
And be not from his reason falne thereon;
Let me be no Assistant for a State,
And keepe a Farme and Carters

   King. We will try it.
Enter Hamlet reading on a Booke.

  Qu. But looke where sadly the poore wretch
Comes reading

   Pol. Away I do beseech you, both away,
Ile boord him presently.

Exit King & Queen.

Oh giue me leaue. How does my good Lord Hamlet?
  Ham. Well, God-a-mercy

   Pol. Do you know me, my Lord?
  Ham. Excellent, excellent well: y'are a Fishmonger

   Pol. Not I my Lord

   Ham. Then I would you were so honest a man

   Pol. Honest, my Lord?
  Ham. I sir, to be honest as this world goes, is to bee
one man pick'd out of two thousand

   Pol. That's very true, my Lord

   Ham. For if the Sun breed Magots in a dead dogge,
being a good kissing Carrion-
Haue you a daughter?
  Pol. I haue my Lord

   Ham. Let her not walke i'thSunne: Conception is a
blessing, but not as your daughter may conceiue. Friend
looke too't

   Pol. How say you by that? Still harping on my daughter:
yet he knew me not at first; he said I was a Fishmonger:
he is farre gone, farre gone: and truly in my youth,
I suffred much extreamity for loue: very neere this. Ile
speake to him againe. What do you read my Lord?
  Ham. Words, words, words

   Pol. What is the matter, my Lord?
  Ham. Betweene who?
  Pol. I meane the matter you meane, my Lord

   Ham. Slanders Sir: for the Satyricall slaue saies here,
that old men haue gray Beards; that their faces are wrinkled;
their eyes purging thicke Amber, or Plum-Tree
Gumme: and that they haue a plentifull locke of Wit,
together with weake Hammes. All which Sir, though I
most powerfully, and potently beleeue; yet I holde it
not Honestie to haue it thus set downe: For you your
selfe Sir, should be old as I am, if like a Crab you could
go backward

   Pol. Though this be madnesse,
Yet there is Method in't: will you walke
Out of the ayre my Lord?
  Ham. Into my Graue?
  Pol. Indeed that is out o'th' Ayre:
How pregnant (sometimes) his Replies are?
A happinesse,
That often Madnesse hits on,
Which Reason and Sanitie could not
So prosperously be deliuer'd of.
I will leaue him,
And sodainely contriue the meanes of meeting
Betweene him, and my daughter.
My Honourable Lord, I will most humbly
Take my leaue of you

   Ham. You cannot Sir take from me any thing, that I
will more willingly part withall, except my life, my
life

   Polon. Fare you well my Lord

   Ham. These tedious old fooles

   Polon. You goe to seeke my Lord Hamlet; there
hee is.
Enter Rosincran and Guildensterne.

  Rosin. God saue you Sir

   Guild. Mine honour'd Lord?
  Rosin. My most deare Lord?
  Ham. My excellent good friends? How do'st thou
Guildensterne? Oh, Rosincrane; good Lads: How doe ye
both?
  Rosin. As the indifferent Children of the earth

   Guild. Happy, in that we are not ouer-happy: on Fortunes
Cap, we are not the very Button

   Ham. Nor the Soales of her Shoo?
  Rosin. Neither my Lord

   Ham. Then you liue about her waste, or in the middle
of her fauour?
  Guil. Faith, her priuates, we

   Ham. In the secret parts of Fortune? Oh, most true:
she is a Strumpet. What's the newes?
  Rosin. None my Lord; but that the World's growne
honest

   Ham. Then is Doomesday neere: But your newes is
not true. Let me question more in particular: what haue
you my good friends, deserued at the hands of Fortune,
that she sends you to Prison hither?
  Guil. Prison, my Lord?
  Ham. Denmark's a Prison

   Rosin. Then is the World one

   Ham. A goodly one, in which there are many Confines,
Wards, and Dungeons; Denmarke being one o'th'
worst

   Rosin. We thinke not so my Lord

   Ham. Why then 'tis none to you; for there is nothing
either good or bad, but thinking makes it so: to me it is
a prison

   Rosin. Why then your Ambition makes it one: 'tis
too narrow for your minde

   Ham. O God, I could be bounded in a nutshell, and
count my selfe a King of infinite space; were it not that
I haue bad dreames

   Guil. Which dreames indeed are Ambition: for the
very substance of the Ambitious, is meerely the shadow
of a Dreame

   Ham. A dreame it selfe is but a shadow

   Rosin. Truely, and I hold Ambition of so ayry and
light a quality, that it is but a shadowes shadow

   Ham. Then are our Beggers bodies; and our Monarchs
and out-stretcht Heroes the Beggers Shadowes:
shall wee to th' Court: for, by my fey I cannot reason?
  Both. Wee'l wait vpon you

   Ham. No such matter. I will not sort you with the
rest of my seruants: for to speake to you like an honest
man: I am most dreadfully attended; but in the beaten
way of friendship, What make you at Elsonower?
  Rosin. To visit you my Lord, no other occasion

   Ham. Begger that I am, I am euen poore in thankes;
but I thanke you: and sure deare friends my thanks
are too deare a halfepeny; were you not sent for? Is it
your owne inclining? Is it a free visitation? Come,
deale iustly with me: come, come; nay speake

   Guil. What should we say my Lord?
  Ham. Why any thing. But to the purpose; you were
sent for; and there is a kinde confession in your lookes;
which your modesties haue not craft enough to color,
I know the good King & Queene haue sent for you

   Rosin. To what end my Lord?
  Ham. That you must teach me: but let mee coniure
you by the rights of our fellowship, by the consonancy of
our youth, by the Obligation of our euer-preserued loue,
and by what more deare, a better proposer could charge
you withall; be euen and direct with me, whether you
were sent for or no

   Rosin. What say you?
  Ham. Nay then I haue an eye of you: if you loue me
hold not off

   Guil. My Lord, we were sent for

   Ham. I will tell you why; so shall my anticipation
preuent your discouery of your secricie to the King and
Queene: moult no feather, I haue of late, but wherefore
I know not, lost all my mirth, forgone all custome of exercise;
and indeed, it goes so heauenly with my disposition;
that this goodly frame the Earth, seemes to me a sterrill
Promontory; this most excellent Canopy the Ayre,
look you, this braue ore-hanging, this Maiesticall Roofe,
fretted with golden fire: why, it appeares no other thing
to mee, then a foule and pestilent congregation of vapours.
What a piece of worke is a man! how Noble in
Reason? how infinite in faculty? in forme and mouing
how expresse and admirable? in Action, how like an Angel?
in apprehension, how like a God? the beauty of the
world, the Parragon of Animals; and yet to me, what is
this Quintessence of Dust? Man delights not me; no,
nor Woman neither; though by your smiling you seeme
to say so

   Rosin. My Lord, there was no such stuffe in my
thoughts

   Ham. Why did you laugh, when I said, Man delights
not me?
  Rosin. To thinke, my Lord, if you delight not in Man,
what Lenton entertainment the Players shall receiue
from you: wee coated them on the way, and hither are
they comming to offer you Seruice

   Ham. He that playes the King shall be welcome; his
Maiesty shall haue Tribute of mee: the aduenturous
Knight shal vse his Foyle and Target: the Louer shall
not sigh gratis, the humorous man shall end his part in
peace: the Clowne shall make those laugh whose lungs
are tickled a'th' sere: and the Lady shall say her minde
freely; or the blanke Verse shall halt for't: what Players
are they?
  Rosin. Euen those you were wont to take delight in
the Tragedians of the City

   Ham. How chances it they trauaile? their residence
both in reputation and profit was better both
wayes

   Rosin. I thinke their Inhibition comes by the meanes
of the late Innouation?
  Ham. Doe they hold the same estimation they did
when I was in the City? Are they so follow'd?
  Rosin. No indeed, they are not

   Ham. How comes it? doe they grow rusty?
  Rosin. Nay, their indeauour keepes in the wonted
pace; But there is Sir an ayrie of Children, little
Yases, that crye out on the top of question; and
are most tyrannically clap't for't: these are now the
fashion, and so be-ratled the common Stages (so they
call them) that many wearing Rapiers, are affraide of
Goose-quils, and dare scarse come thither

   Ham. What are they Children? Who maintains 'em?
How are they escorted? Will they pursue the Quality no
longer then they can sing? Will they not say afterwards
if they should grow themselues to common Players (as
it is most like if their meanes are not better) their Writers
do them wrong, to make them exclaim against their
owne Succession

   Rosin. Faith there ha's bene much to do on both sides:
and the Nation holds it no sinne, to tarre them to Controuersie.
There was for a while, no mony bid for argument,
vnlesse the Poet and the Player went to Cuffes in
the Question

   Ham. Is't possible?
  Guild. Oh there ha's beene much throwing about of
Braines

   Ham. Do the Boyes carry it away?
  Rosin. I that they do my Lord. Hercules & his load too

   Ham. It is not strange: for mine Vnckle is King of
Denmarke, and those that would make mowes at him
while my Father liued; giue twenty, forty, an hundred
Ducates a peece, for his picture in Little. There is something
in this more then Naturall, if Philosophie could
finde it out.

Flourish for the Players.

  Guil. There are the Players

   Ham. Gentlemen, you are welcom to Elsonower: your
hands, come: The appurtenance of Welcome, is Fashion
and Ceremony. Let me comply with you in the Garbe,
lest my extent to the Players (which I tell you must shew
fairely outward) should more appeare like entertainment
then yours. You are welcome: but my Vnckle Father,
and Aunt Mother are deceiu'd

   Guil. In what my deere Lord?
  Ham. I am but mad North, North-West: when the
Winde is Southerly, I know a Hawke from a Handsaw.
Enter Polonius.

  Pol. Well be with you Gentlemen

   Ham. Hearke you Guildensterne, and you too: at each
eare a hearer: that great Baby you see there, is not yet
out of his swathing clouts

   Rosin. Happily he's the second time come to them: for
they say, an old man is twice a childe

   Ham. I will Prophesie. Hee comes to tell me of the
Players. Mark it, you say right Sir: for a Monday morning
'twas so indeed

   Pol. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you

   Ham. My Lord, I haue Newes to tell you.
When Rossius an Actor in Rome-
  Pol. The Actors are come hither my Lord

   Ham. Buzze, buzze

   Pol. Vpon mine Honor

   Ham. Then can each Actor on his Asse-
  Polon. The best Actors in the world, either for Tragedie,
Comedie, Historie, Pastorall:
Pastoricall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
Tragicall-Historicall: Tragicall-Comicall-Historicall-Pastorall:
Scene indiuidible: or Poem
vnlimited. Seneca cannot be too heauy, nor Plautus
too light, for the law of Writ, and the Liberty. These are
the onely men

   Ham. O Iephta Iudge of Israel, what a Treasure had'st
thou?
  Pol. What a Treasure had he, my Lord?
  Ham. Why one faire Daughter, and no more,
The which he loued passing well

   Pol. Still on my Daughter

   Ham. Am I not i'th' right old Iephta?
  Polon. If you call me Iephta my Lord, I haue a daughter
that I loue passing well

   Ham. Nay that followes not

   Polon. What followes then, my Lord?
  Ha. Why, As by lot, God wot: and then you know, It
came to passe, as most like it was: The first rowe of the
Pons Chanson will shew you more. For looke where my
Abridgements come.
Enter foure or fiue Players.

Y'are welcome Masters, welcome all. I am glad to see
thee well: Welcome good Friends. Oh my olde Friend?
Thy face is valiant since I saw thee last: Com'st thou to
beard me in Denmarke? What, my yong Lady and Mistris?
Byrlady your Ladiship is neerer Heauen then when
I saw you last, by the altitude of a Choppine. Pray God
your voice like a peece of vncurrant Gold be not crack'd
within the ring. Masters, you are all welcome: wee'l e'ne
to't like French Faulconers, flie at any thing we see: wee'l
haue a Speech straight. Come giue vs a tast of your quality:
come, a passionate speech

   1.Play. What speech, my Lord?
  Ham. I heard thee speak me a speech once, but it was
neuer Acted: or if it was, not aboue once, for the Play I
remember pleas'd not the Million, 'twas Cauiarie to the
Generall: but it was (as I receiu'd it, and others, whose
iudgement in such matters, cried in the top of mine) an
excellent Play; well digested in the Scoenes, set downe
with as much modestie, as cunning. I remember one said,
there was no Sallets in the lines, to make the matter sauory;
nor no matter in the phrase, that might indite the
Author of affectation, but cal'd it an honest method. One
cheefe Speech in it, I cheefely lou'd, 'twas Aeneas Tale
to Dido, and thereabout of it especially, where he speaks
of Priams slaughter. If it liue in your memory, begin at
this Line, let me see, let me see: The rugged Pyrrhus like
th'Hyrcanian Beast. It is not so: it begins with Pyrrhus
The rugged Pyrrhus, he whose Sable Armes
Blacke as his purpose, did the night resemble
When he lay couched in the Ominous Horse,
Hath now this dread and blacke Complexion smear'd
With Heraldry more dismall: Head to foote
Now is he to take Geulles, horridly Trick'd
With blood of Fathers, Mothers, Daughters, Sonnes,
Bak'd and impasted with the parching streets,
That lend a tyrannous, and damned light
To their vilde Murthers, roasted in wrath and fire,
And thus o're-sized with coagulate gore,
With eyes like Carbuncles, the hellish Pyrrhus
Olde Grandsire Priam seekes

   Pol. Fore God, my Lord, well spoken, with good accent,
and good discretion

   1.Player. Anon he findes him,
Striking too short at Greekes. His anticke Sword,
Rebellious to his Arme, lyes where it falles
Repugnant to command: vnequall match,
Pyrrhus at Priam driues, in Rage strikes wide:
But with the whiffe and winde of his fell Sword,
Th' vnnerued Father fals. Then senselesse Illium,
Seeming to feele his blow, with flaming top
Stoopes to his Bace, and with a hideous crash
Takes Prisoner Pyrrhus eare. For loe, his Sword
Which was declining on the Milkie head
Of Reuerend Priam, seem'd i'th' Ayre to sticke:
So as a painted Tyrant Pyrrhus stood,
And like a Newtrall to his will and matter, did nothing.
But as we often see against some storme,
A silence in the Heauens, the Racke stand still,
The bold windes speechlesse, and the Orbe below
As hush as death: Anon the dreadfull Thunder
Doth rend the Region. So after Pyrrhus pause,
A rowsed Vengeance sets him new a-worke,
And neuer did the Cyclops hammers fall
On Mars his Armours, forg'd for proofe Eterne,
With lesse remorse then Pyrrhus bleeding sword
Now falles on Priam.
Out, out, thou Strumpet-Fortune, all you Gods,
In generall Synod take away her power:
Breake all the Spokes and Fallies from her wheele,
And boule the round Naue downe the hill of Heauen,
As low as to the Fiends

   Pol. This is too long

   Ham. It shall to'th Barbars, with your beard. Prythee
say on: He's for a Iigge, or a tale of Baudry, or hee
sleepes. Say on; come to Hecuba

   1.Play. But who, O who, had seen the inobled Queen

   Ham. The inobled Queene?
  Pol. That's good: Inobled Queene is good

   1.Play. Run bare-foot vp and downe,
Threatning the flame
With Bisson Rheume: A clout about that head,
Where late the Diadem stood, and for a Robe
About her lanke and all ore-teamed Loines,
A blanket in th' Alarum of feare caught vp.
Who this had seene, with tongue in Venome steep'd,
'Gainst Fortunes State, would Treason haue pronounc'd?
But if the Gods themselues did see her then,
When she saw Pyrrhus make malicious sport
In mincing with his Sword her Husbands limbes,
The instant Burst of Clamour that she made
(Vnlesse things mortall moue them not at all)
Would haue made milche the Burning eyes of Heauen,
And passion in the Gods

   Pol. Looke where he ha's not turn'd his colour, and
ha's teares in's eyes. Pray you no more

   Ham. 'Tis well, Ile haue thee speake out the rest,
soone. Good my Lord, will you see the Players wel bestow'd.
Do ye heare, let them be well vs'd: for they are
the Abstracts and breefe Chronicles of the time. After
your death, you were better haue a bad Epitaph, then
their ill report while you liued

   Pol. My Lord, I will vse them according to their desart

   Ham. Gods bodykins man, better. Vse euerie man
after his desart, and who should scape whipping: vse
them after your own Honor and Dignity. The lesse they
deserue, the more merit is in your bountie. Take them
in

   Pol. Come sirs.

Exit Polon.

  Ham. Follow him Friends: wee'l heare a play to morrow.
Dost thou heare me old Friend, can you play the
murther of Gonzago?
  Play. I my Lord

   Ham. Wee'l ha't to morrow night. You could for a
need study a speech of some dosen or sixteene lines, which
I would set downe, and insert in't? Could ye not?
  Play. I my Lord

   Ham. Very well. Follow that Lord, and looke you
mock him not. My good Friends, Ile leaue you til night
you are welcome to Elsonower?
  Rosin. Good my Lord.

Exeunt.

Manet Hamlet.

  Ham. I so, God buy'ye: Now I am alone.
Oh what a Rogue and Pesant slaue am I?
Is it not monstrous that this Player heere,
But in a Fixion, in a dreame of Passion,
Could force his soule so to his whole conceit,
That from her working, all his visage warm'd;
Teares in his eyes, distraction in's Aspect,
A broken voyce, and his whole Function suiting
With Formes, to his Conceit? And all for nothing?
For Hecuba?
What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
That he should weepe for her? What would he doe,
Had he the Motiue and the Cue for passion
That I haue? He would drowne the Stage with teares,
And cleaue the generall eare with horrid speech:
Make mad the guilty, and apale the free,
Confound the ignorant, and amaze indeed,
The very faculty of Eyes and Eares. Yet I,
A dull and muddy-metled Rascall, peake
Like Iohn a-dreames, vnpregnant of my cause,
And can say nothing: No, not for a King,
Vpon whose property, and most deere life,
A damn'd defeate was made. Am I a Coward?
Who calles me Villaine? breakes my pate a-crosse?
Pluckes off my Beard, and blowes it in my face?
Tweakes me by'th' Nose? giues me the Lye i'th' Throate,
As deepe as to the Lungs? Who does me this?
Ha? Why I should take it: for it cannot be,
But I am Pigeon-Liuer'd, and lacke Gall
To make Oppression bitter, or ere this,
I should haue fatted all the Region Kites
With this Slaues Offall, bloudy: a Bawdy villaine,
Remorselesse, Treacherous, Letcherous, kindles villaine!
Oh Vengeance!
Who? What an Asse am I? I sure, this is most braue,
That I, the Sonne of the Deere murthered,
Prompted to my Reuenge by Heauen, and Hell,
Must (like a Whore) vnpacke my heart with words,
And fall a Cursing like a very Drab.
A Scullion? Fye vpon't: Foh. About my Braine.
I haue heard, that guilty Creatures sitting at a Play,
Haue by the very cunning of the Scoene,
Bene strooke so to the soule, that presently
They haue proclaim'd their Malefactions.
For Murther, though it haue no tongue, will speake
With most myraculous Organ. Ile haue these Players,
Play something like the murder of my Father,
Before mine Vnkle. Ile obserue his lookes,
Ile rent him to the quicke: If he but blench
I know my course. The Spirit that I haue seene
May be the Diuell, and the Diuel hath power
T' assume a pleasing shape, yea and perhaps
Out of my Weaknesse, and my Melancholly,
As he is very potent with such Spirits,
Abuses me to damne me. Ile haue grounds
More Relatiue then this: The Play's the thing,
Wherein Ile catch the Conscience of the King.

Exit

Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
Guildenstern, and
Lords.

  King. And can you by no drift of circumstance
Get from him why he puts on this Confusion:
Grating so harshly all his dayes of quiet
With turbulent and dangerous Lunacy

   Rosin. He does confesse he feeles himselfe distracted,
But from what cause he will by no meanes speake

   Guil. Nor do we finde him forward to be sounded,
But with a crafty Madnesse keepes aloofe:
When we would bring him on to some Confession
Of his true state

   Qu. Did he receiue you well?
  Rosin. Most like a Gentleman

   Guild. But with much forcing of his disposition

   Rosin. Niggard of question, but of our demands
Most free in his reply

   Qu. Did you assay him to any pastime?
  Rosin. Madam, it so fell out, that certaine Players
We ore-wrought on the way: of these we told him,
And there did seeme in him a kinde of ioy
To heare of it: They are about the Court,
And (as I thinke) they haue already order
This night to play before him

   Pol. 'Tis most true:
And he beseech'd me to intreate your Maiesties
To heare, and see the matter

   King. With all my heart, and it doth much content me
To heare him so inclin'd. Good Gentlemen,
Giue him a further edge, and driue his purpose on
To these delights

   Rosin. We shall my Lord.

Exeunt.

  King. Sweet Gertrude leaue vs too,
For we haue closely sent for Hamlet hither,
That he, as 'twere by accident, may there
Affront Ophelia. Her Father, and my selfe (lawful espials)
Will so bestow our selues, that seeing vnseene
We may of their encounter frankely iudge,
And gather by him, as he is behaued,
If't be th' affliction of his loue, or no.
That thus he suffers for

   Qu. I shall obey you,
And for your part Ophelia, I do wish
That your good Beauties be the happy cause
Of Hamlets wildenesse: so shall I hope your Vertues
Will bring him to his wonted way againe,
To both your Honors

   Ophe. Madam, I wish it may

   Pol. Ophelia, walke you heere. Gracious so please ye
We will bestow our selues: Reade on this booke,
That shew of such an exercise may colour
Your lonelinesse. We are oft too blame in this,
'Tis too much prou'd, that with Deuotions visage,
And pious Action, we do surge o're
The diuell himselfe

   King. Oh 'tis true:
How smart a lash that speech doth giue my Conscience?
The Harlots Cheeke beautied with plaist'ring Art
Is not more vgly to the thing that helpes it,
Then is my deede, to my most painted word.
Oh heauie burthen!
  Pol. I heare him comming, let's withdraw my Lord.

Exeunt.

Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. To be, or not to be, that is the Question:
Whether 'tis Nobler in the minde to suffer
The Slings and Arrowes of outragious Fortune,
Or to take Armes against a Sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them: to dye, to sleepe
No more; and by a sleepe, to say we end
The Heart-ake, and the thousand Naturall shockes
That Flesh is heyre too? 'Tis a consummation
Deuoutly to be wish'd. To dye to sleepe,
To sleepe, perchance to Dreame; I, there's the rub,
For in that sleepe of death, what dreames may come,
When we haue shuffel'd off this mortall coile,
Must giue vs pawse. There's the respect
That makes Calamity of so long life:
For who would beare the Whips and Scornes of time,
The Oppressors wrong, the poore mans Contumely,
The pangs of dispriz'd Loue, the Lawes delay,
The insolence of Office, and the Spurnes
That patient merit of the vnworthy takes,
When he himselfe might his Quietus make
With a bare Bodkin? Who would these Fardles beare
To grunt and sweat vnder a weary life,
But that the dread of something after death,
The vndiscouered Countrey, from whose Borne
No Traueller returnes, Puzels the will,
And makes vs rather beare those illes we haue,
Then flye to others that we know not of.
Thus Conscience does make Cowards of vs all,
And thus the Natiue hew of Resolution
Is sicklied o're, with the pale cast of Thought,
And enterprizes of great pith and moment,
With this regard their Currants turne away,
And loose the name of Action. Soft you now,
The faire Ophelia? Nimph, in thy Orizons
Be all my sinnes remembred

   Ophe. Good my Lord,
How does your Honor for this many a day?
  Ham. I humbly thanke you: well, well, well

   Ophe. My Lord, I haue Remembrances of yours,
That I haue longed long to re-deliuer.
I pray you now, receiue them

   Ham. No, no, I neuer gaue you ought

   Ophe. My honor'd Lord, I know right well you did,
And with them words of so sweet breath compos'd,
As made the things more rich, then perfume left:
Take these againe, for to the Noble minde
Rich gifts wax poore, when giuers proue vnkinde.
There my Lord

   Ham. Ha, ha: Are you honest?
  Ophe. My Lord

   Ham. Are you faire?
  Ophe. What meanes your Lordship?
  Ham. That if you be honest and faire, your Honesty
should admit no discourse to your Beautie

   Ophe. Could Beautie my Lord, haue better Comerce
then your Honestie?
  Ham. I trulie: for the power of Beautie, will sooner
transforme Honestie from what is, to a Bawd, then the
force of Honestie can translate Beautie into his likenesse.
This was sometime a Paradox, but now the time giues it
proofe. I did loue you once

   Ophe. Indeed my Lord, you made me beleeue so

   Ham. You should not haue beleeued me. For vertue
cannot so innocculate our old stocke, but we shall rellish
of it. I loued you not

   Ophe. I was the more deceiued

   Ham. Get thee to a Nunnerie. Why would'st thou
be a breeder of Sinners? I am my selfe indifferent honest,
but yet I could accuse me of such things, that it were better
my Mother had not borne me. I am very prowd, reuengefull,
Ambitious, with more offences at my becke,
then I haue thoughts to put them in imagination, to giue
them shape, or time to acte them in. What should such
Fellowes as I do, crawling betweene Heauen and Earth.
We are arrant Knaues all, beleeue none of vs. Goe thy
wayes to a Nunnery. Where's your Father?
  Ophe. At home, my Lord

   Ham. Let the doores be shut vpon him, that he may
play the Foole no way, but in's owne house. Farewell

   Ophe. O helpe him, you sweet Heauens

   Ham. If thou doest Marry, Ile giue thee this Plague
for thy Dowrie. Be thou as chast as Ice, as pure as Snow,
thou shalt not escape Calumny. Get thee to a Nunnery.
Go, Farewell. Or if thou wilt needs Marry, marry a fool:
for Wise men know well enough, what monsters you
make of them. To a Nunnery go, and quickly too. Farwell

   Ophe. O heauenly Powers, restore him

   Ham. I haue heard of your pratlings too wel enough.
God has giuen you one pace, and you make your selfe another:
you gidge, you amble, and you lispe, and nickname
Gods creatures, and make your Wantonnesse, your Ignorance.
Go too, Ile no more on't, it hath made me mad.
I say, we will haue no more Marriages. Those that are
married already, all but one shall liue, the rest shall keep
as they are. To a Nunnery, go.

Exit Hamlet.

  Ophe. O what a Noble minde is heere o're-throwne?
The Courtiers, Soldiers, Schollers: Eye, tongue, sword,
Th' expectansie and Rose of the faire State,
The glasse of Fashion, and the mould of Forme,
Th' obseru'd of all Obseruers, quite, quite downe.
Haue I of Ladies most deiect and wretched,
That suck'd the Honie of his Musicke Vowes:
Now see that Noble, and most Soueraigne Reason,
Like sweet Bels iangled out of tune, and harsh,
That vnmatch'd Forme and Feature of blowne youth,
Blasted with extasie. Oh woe is me,
T'haue seene what I haue seene: see what I see.
Enter King, and Polonius.

  King. Loue? His affections do not that way tend,
Nor what he spake, though it lack'd Forme a little,
Was not like Madnesse. There's something in his soule?
O're which his Melancholly sits on brood,
And I do doubt the hatch, and the disclose
Will be some danger, which to preuent
I haue in quicke determination
Thus set it downe. He shall with speed to England
For the demand of our neglected Tribute:
Haply the Seas and Countries different
With variable Obiects, shall expell
This something setled matter in his heart:
Whereon his Braines still beating, puts him thus
From fashion of himselfe. What thinke you on't?
  Pol. It shall do well. But yet do I beleeue
The Origin and Commencement of this greefe
Sprung from neglected loue. How now Ophelia?
You neede not tell vs, what Lord Hamlet saide,
We heard it all. My Lord, do as you please,
But if you hold it fit after the Play,
Let his Queene Mother all alone intreat him
To shew his Greefes: let her be round with him,
And Ile be plac'd so, please you in the eare
Of all their Conference. If she finde him not,
To England send him: Or confine him where
Your wisedome best shall thinke

   King. It shall be so:
Madnesse in great Ones, must not vnwatch'd go.

Exeunt.

Enter Hamlet, and two or three of the Players.

  Ham. Speake the Speech I pray you, as I pronounc'd
it to you trippingly on the Tongue: But if you mouth it,
as many of your Players do, I had as liue the Town-Cryer
had spoke my Lines: Nor do not saw the Ayre too much
your hand thus, but vse all gently; for in the verie Torrent,
Tempest, and (as I say) the Whirle-winde of
Passion, you must acquire and beget a Temperance that
may giue it Smoothnesse. O it offends mee to the Soule,
to see a robustious Pery-wig-pated Fellow, teare a Passion
to tatters, to verie ragges, to split the eares of the
Groundlings: who (for the most part) are capeable of
nothing, but inexplicable dumbe shewes, & noise: I could
haue such a Fellow whipt for o're-doing Termagant: it
outHerod's Herod. Pray you auoid it

   Player. I warrant your Honor

   Ham. Be not too tame neyther: but let your owne
Discretion be your Tutor. Sute the Action to the Word,
the Word to the Action, with this speciall obseruance:
That you ore-stop not the modestie of Nature; for any
thing so ouer-done, is fro[m] the purpose of Playing, whose
end both at the first and now, was and is, to hold as 'twer
the Mirrour vp to Nature; to shew Vertue her owne
Feature, Scorne her owne Image, and the verie Age and
Bodie of the Time, his forme and pressure. Now, this
ouer-done, or come tardie off, though it make the vnskilfull
laugh, cannot but make the Iudicious greeue; The
censure of the which One, must in your allowance o'reway
a whole Theater of Others. Oh, there bee Players
that I haue seene Play, and heard others praise, and that
highly (not to speake it prophanely) that neyther hauing
the accent of Christians, nor the gate of Christian, Pagan,
or Norman, haue so strutted and bellowed, that I haue
thought some of Natures Iouerney-men had made men,
and not made them well, they imitated Humanity so abhominably

   Play. I hope we haue reform'd that indifferently with
vs, Sir

   Ham. O reforme it altogether. And let those that
play your Clownes, speake no more then is set downe for
them. For there be of them, that will themselues laugh,
to set on some quantitie of barren Spectators to laugh
too, though in the meane time, some necessary Question
of the Play be then to be considered: that's Villanous, &
shewes a most pittifull Ambition in the Foole that vses
it. Go make you readie.

Exit Players.

Enter Polonius, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.

How now my Lord,
Will the King heare this peece of Worke?
  Pol. And the Queene too, and that presently

   Ham. Bid the Players make hast.

Exit Polonius.

Will you two helpe to hasten them?
  Both. We will my Lord.

Exeunt.

Enter Horatio.

  Ham. What hoa, Horatio?
  Hora. Heere sweet Lord, at your Seruice

   Ham. Horatio, thou art eene as iust a man
As ere my Conuersation coap'd withall

   Hora. O my deere Lord

   Ham. Nay, do not thinke I flatter:
For what aduancement may I hope from thee,
That no Reuennew hast, but thy good spirits
To feed & cloath thee. Why shold the poor be flatter'd?
No, let the Candied tongue, like absurd pompe,
And crooke the pregnant Hindges of the knee,
Where thrift may follow faining? Dost thou heare,
Since my deere Soule was Mistris of my choyse,
And could of men distinguish, her election
Hath seal'd thee for her selfe. For thou hast bene
As one in suffering all, that suffers nothing.
A man that Fortunes buffets, and Rewards
Hath 'tane with equall Thankes. And blest are those,
Whose Blood and Iudgement are so well co-mingled,
That they are not a Pipe for Fortunes finger.
To sound what stop she please. Giue me that man,
That is not Passions Slaue, and I will weare him
In my hearts Core. I, in my Heart of heart,
As I do thee. Something too much of this.
There is a Play to night to before the King.
One Scoene of it comes neere the Circumstance
Which I haue told thee, of my Fathers death.
I prythee, when thou see'st that Acte a-foot,
Euen with the verie Comment of my Soule
Obserue mine Vnkle: If his occulted guilt,
Do not it selfe vnkennell in one speech,
It is a damned Ghost that we haue seene:
And my Imaginations are as foule
As Vulcans Stythe. Giue him needfull note,
For I mine eyes will riuet to his Face:
And after we will both our iudgements ioyne,
To censure of his seeming

   Hora. Well my Lord.
If he steale ought the whil'st this Play is Playing,
And scape detecting, I will pay the Theft.
Enter King, Queene, Polonius, Ophelia, Rosincrance,
Guildensterne, and
other Lords attendant with his Guard carrying Torches. Danish
March. Sound
a Flourish.

  Ham. They are comming to the Play: I must be idle.
Get you a place

   King. How fares our Cosin Hamlet?
  Ham. Excellent Ifaith, of the Camelions dish: I eate
the Ayre promise-cramm'd, you cannot feed Capons so

   King. I haue nothing with this answer Hamlet, these
words are not mine

   Ham. No, nor mine. Now my Lord, you plaid once
i'th' Vniuersity, you say?
  Polon. That I did my Lord, and was accounted a good
Actor

   Ham. And what did you enact?
  Pol. I did enact Iulius Caesar, I was kill'd i'th' Capitol:
Brutus kill'd me

   Ham. It was a bruite part of him, to kill so Capitall a
Calfe there. Be the Players ready?
  Rosin. I my Lord, they stay vpon your patience

   Qu. Come hither my good Hamlet, sit by me

   Ha. No good Mother, here's Mettle more attractiue

   Pol. Oh ho, do you marke that?
  Ham. Ladie, shall I lye in your Lap?
  Ophe. No my Lord

   Ham. I meane, my Head vpon your Lap?
  Ophe. I my Lord

   Ham. Do you thinke I meant Country matters?
  Ophe. I thinke nothing, my Lord

   Ham. That's a faire thought to ly betweene Maids legs
  Ophe. What is my Lord?
  Ham. Nothing

   Ophe. You are merrie, my Lord?
  Ham. Who I?
  Ophe. I my Lord

   Ham. Oh God, your onely Iigge-maker: what should
a man do, but be merrie. For looke you how cheerefully
my Mother lookes, and my Father dyed within's two
Houres

   Ophe. Nay, 'tis twice two moneths, my Lord

   Ham. So long? Nay then let the Diuel weare blacke,
for Ile haue a suite of Sables. Oh Heauens! dye two moneths
ago, and not forgotten yet? Then there's hope, a
great mans Memorie, may out-liue his life halfe a yeare:
But byrlady he must builde Churches then: or else shall
he suffer not thinking on, with the Hoby-horsse, whose
Epitaph is, For o, For o, the Hoby-horse is forgot.

Hoboyes play. The dumbe shew enters.

Enter a King and Queene, very louingly; the Queene embracing
him. She
kneeles, and makes shew of Protestation vnto him. He takes her
vp, and
declines his head vpon her neck. Layes him downe vpon a Banke
of Flowers.
She seeing him a-sleepe, leaues him. Anon comes in a Fellow,
takes off his
Crowne, kisses it, and powres poyson in the Kings eares, and
Exits. The
Queene returnes, findes the King dead, and makes passionate
Action. The
Poysoner, with some two or three Mutes comes in againe, seeming
to lament
with her. The dead body is carried away: The Poysoner Wooes the
Queene with
Gifts, she seemes loath and vnwilling awhile, but in the end,
accepts his
loue.

Exeunt.

  Ophe. What meanes this, my Lord?
  Ham. Marry this is Miching Malicho, that meanes
Mischeefe

   Ophe. Belike this shew imports the Argument of the
Play?
  Ham. We shall know by these Fellowes: the Players
cannot keepe counsell, they'l tell all

   Ophe. Will they tell vs what this shew meant?
  Ham. I, or any shew that you'l shew him. Bee not
you asham'd to shew, hee'l not shame to tell you what it
meanes

   Ophe. You are naught, you are naught, Ile marke the
Play.
Enter Prologue.

For vs, and for our Tragedie,
Heere stooping to your Clemencie:
We begge your hearing Patientlie

   Ham. Is this a Prologue, or the Poesie of a Ring?
  Ophe. 'Tis briefe my Lord

   Ham. As Womans loue.
Enter King and his Queene.

  King. Full thirtie times hath Phoebus Cart gon round,
Neptunes salt Wash, and Tellus Orbed ground:
And thirtie dozen Moones with borrowed sheene,
About the World haue times twelue thirties beene,
Since loue our hearts, and Hymen did our hands
Vnite comutuall, in most sacred Bands

   Bap. So many iournies may the Sunne and Moone
Make vs againe count o're, ere loue be done.
But woe is me, you are so sicke of late,
So farre from cheere, and from your former state,
That I distrust you: yet though I distrust,
Discomfort you (my Lord) it nothing must:
For womens Feare and Loue, holds quantitie,
In neither ought, or in extremity:
Now what my loue is, proofe hath made you know,
And as my Loue is siz'd, my Feare is so

   King. Faith I must leaue thee Loue, and shortly too:
My operant Powers my Functions leaue to do:
And thou shalt liue in this faire world behinde,
Honour'd, belou'd, and haply, one as kinde.
For Husband shalt thou-
  Bap. Oh confound the rest:
Such Loue, must needs be Treason in my brest:
In second Husband, let me be accurst,
None wed the second, but who kill'd the first

   Ham. Wormwood, Wormwood

   Bapt. The instances that second Marriage moue,
Are base respects of Thrift, but none of Loue.
A second time, I kill my Husband dead,
When second Husband kisses me in Bed

   King. I do beleeue you. Think what now you speak:
But what we do determine, oft we breake:
Purpose is but the slaue to Memorie,
Of violent Birth, but poore validitie:
Which now like Fruite vnripe stickes on the Tree,
But fall vnshaken, when they mellow bee.
Most necessary 'tis, that we forget
To pay our selues, what to our selues is debt:
What to our selues in passion we propose,
The passion ending, doth the purpose lose.
The violence of other Greefe or Ioy,
Their owne ennactors with themselues destroy:
Where Ioy most Reuels, Greefe doth most lament;
Greefe ioyes, Ioy greeues on slender accident.
This world is not for aye, nor 'tis not strange
That euen our Loues should with our Fortunes change.
For 'tis a question left vs yet to proue,
Whether Loue lead Fortune, or else Fortune Loue.
The great man downe, you marke his fauourites flies,
The poore aduanc'd, makes Friends of Enemies:
And hitherto doth Loue on Fortune tend,
For who not needs, shall neuer lacke a Frend:
And who in want a hollow Friend doth try,
Directly seasons him his Enemie.
But orderly to end, where I begun,
Our Willes and Fates do so contrary run,
That our Deuices still are ouerthrowne,
Our thoughts are ours, their ends none of our owne.
So thinke thou wilt no second Husband wed.
But die thy thoughts, when thy first Lord is dead

   Bap. Nor Earth to giue me food, nor Heauen light,
Sport and repose locke from me day and night:
Each opposite that blankes the face of ioy,
Meet what I would haue well, and it destroy:
Both heere, and hence, pursue me lasting strife,
If once a Widdow, euer I be Wife

   Ham. If she should breake it now

   King. 'Tis deepely sworne:
Sweet, leaue me heere a while,
My spirits grow dull, and faine I would beguile
The tedious day with sleepe

   Qu. Sleepe rocke thy Braine,

Sleepes

And neuer come mischance betweene vs twaine.

Exit

  Ham. Madam, how like you this Play?
  Qu. The Lady protests to much me thinkes

   Ham. Oh but shee'l keepe her word

   King. Haue you heard the Argument, is there no Offence
in't?
  Ham. No, no, they do but iest, poyson in iest, no Offence
i'th' world

   King. What do you call the Play?
  Ham. The Mouse-trap: Marry how? Tropically:
This Play is the Image of a murder done in Vienna: Gonzago
is the Dukes name, his wife Baptista: you shall see
anon: 'tis a knauish peece of worke: But what o'that?
Your Maiestie, and wee that haue free soules, it touches
vs not: let the gall'd iade winch: our withers are vnrung.
Enter Lucianus.

This is one Lucianus nephew to the King

   Ophe. You are a good Chorus, my Lord

   Ham. I could interpret betweene you and your loue:
if I could see the Puppets dallying

   Ophe. You are keene my Lord, you are keene

   Ham. It would cost you a groaning, to take off my
edge

   Ophe. Still better and worse

   Ham. So you mistake Husbands.
Begin Murderer. Pox, leaue thy damnable Faces, and
begin. Come, the croaking Rauen doth bellow for Reuenge

   Lucian. Thoughts blacke, hands apt,
Drugges fit, and Time agreeing:
Confederate season, else, no Creature seeing:
Thou mixture ranke, of Midnight Weeds collected,
With Hecats Ban, thrice blasted, thrice infected,
Thy naturall Magicke, and dire propertie,
On wholsome life, vsurpe immediately.

Powres the poyson in his eares.

  Ham. He poysons him i'th' Garden for's estate: His
name's Gonzago: the Story is extant and writ in choyce
Italian. You shall see anon how the Murtherer gets the
loue of Gonzago's wife

   Ophe. The King rises

   Ham. What, frighted with false fire

   Qu. How fares my Lord?
  Pol. Giue o're the Play

   King. Giue me some Light. Away

   All. Lights, Lights, Lights.

Exeunt.

Manet Hamlet & Horatio.

  Ham. Why let the strucken Deere go weepe,
The Hart vngalled play:
For some must watch, while some must sleepe;
So runnes the world away.
Would not this Sir, and a Forrest of Feathers, if the rest of
my Fortunes turne Turke with me; with two Prouinciall
Roses on my rac'd Shooes, get me a Fellowship in a crie
of Players sir

   Hor. Halfe a share

   Ham. A whole one I,
For thou dost know: Oh Damon deere,
This Realme dismantled was of Ioue himselfe,
And now reignes heere.
A verie verie Paiocke

   Hora. You might haue Rim'd

   Ham. Oh good Horatio, Ile take the Ghosts word for
a thousand pound. Did'st perceiue?
  Hora. Verie well my Lord

   Ham. Vpon the talke of the poysoning?
  Hora. I did verie well note him.
Enter Rosincrance and Guildensterne.

  Ham. Oh, ha? Come some Musick. Come y Recorders:
For if the King like not the Comedie,
Why then belike he likes it not perdie.
Come some Musicke

   Guild. Good my Lord, vouchsafe me a word with you

   Ham. Sir, a whole History

   Guild. The King, sir

   Ham. I sir, what of him?
  Guild. Is in his retyrement, maruellous distemper'd

   Ham. With drinke Sir?
  Guild. No my Lord, rather with choller

   Ham. Your wisedome should shew it selfe more richer,
to signifie this to his Doctor: for for me to put him
to his Purgation, would perhaps plundge him into farre
more Choller

   Guild. Good my Lord put your discourse into some
frame, and start not so wildely from my affayre

   Ham. I am tame Sir, pronounce

   Guild. The Queene your Mother, in most great affliction
of spirit, hath sent me to you

   Ham. You are welcome

   Guild. Nay, good my Lord, this courtesie is not of
the right breed. If it shall please you to make me a wholsome
answer, I will doe your Mothers command'ment:
if not, your pardon, and my returne shall bee the end of
my Businesse

   Ham. Sir, I cannot

   Guild. What, my Lord?
  Ham. Make you a wholsome answere: my wits diseas'd.
But sir, such answers as I can make, you shal command:
or rather you say, my Mother: therfore no more
but to the matter. My Mother you say

   Rosin. Then thus she sayes: your behauior hath stroke
her into amazement, and admiration

   Ham. Oh wonderfull Sonne, that can so astonish a
Mother. But is there no sequell at the heeles of this Mothers
admiration?
  Rosin. She desires to speake with you in her Closset,
ere you go to bed

   Ham. We shall obey, were she ten times our Mother.
Haue you any further Trade with vs?
  Rosin. My Lord, you once did loue me

   Ham. So I do still, by these pickers and stealers

   Rosin. Good my Lord, what is your cause of distemper?
You do freely barre the doore of your owne Libertie,
if you deny your greefes to your Friend

   Ham. Sir I lacke Aduancement

   Rosin. How can that be, when you haue the voyce of
the King himselfe, for your Succession in Denmarke?
  Ham. I, but while the grasse growes, the Prouerbe is
something musty.
Enter one with a Recorder.

O the Recorder. Let me see, to withdraw with you, why
do you go about to recouer the winde of mee, as if you
would driue me into a toyle?
  Guild. O my Lord, if my Dutie be too bold, my loue
is too vnmannerly

   Ham. I do not well vnderstand that. Will you play
vpon this Pipe?
  Guild. My Lord, I cannot

   Ham. I pray you

   Guild. Beleeue me, I cannot

   Ham. I do beseech you

   Guild. I know no touch of it, my Lord

   Ham. 'Tis as easie as lying: gouerne these Ventiges
with your finger and thumbe, giue it breath with your
mouth, and it will discourse most excellent Musicke.
Looke you, these are the stoppes

   Guild. But these cannot I command to any vtterance
of hermony, I haue not the skill

   Ham. Why looke you now, how vnworthy a thing
you make of me: you would play vpon mee; you would
seeme to know my stops: you would pluck out the heart
of my Mysterie; you would sound mee from my lowest
Note, to the top of my Compasse: and there is much Musicke,
excellent Voice, in this little Organe, yet cannot
you make it. Why do you thinke, that I am easier to bee
plaid on, then a Pipe? Call me what Instrument you will,
though you can fret me, you cannot play vpon me. God
blesse you Sir.
Enter Polonius.

  Polon. My Lord; the Queene would speak with you,
and presently

   Ham. Do you see that Clowd? that's almost in shape
like a Camell

   Polon. By'th' Masse, and it's like a Camell indeed

   Ham. Me thinkes it is like a Weazell

   Polon. It is back'd like a Weazell

   Ham. Or like a Whale?
  Polon. Verie like a Whale

   Ham. Then will I come to my Mother, by and by:
They foole me to the top of my bent.
I will come by and by

   Polon. I will say so.
Enter.

  Ham. By and by, is easily said. Leaue me Friends:
'Tis now the verie witching time of night,
When Churchyards yawne, and Hell it selfe breaths out
Contagion to this world. Now could I drink hot blood,
And do such bitter businesse as the day
Would quake to looke on. Soft now, to my Mother:
Oh Heart, loose not thy Nature; let not euer
The Soule of Nero, enter this firme bosome:
Let me be cruell, not vnnaturall,
I will speake Daggers to her, but vse none:
My Tongue and Soule in this be Hypocrites.
How in my words someuer she be shent,
To giue them Seales, neuer my Soule consent.
Enter King, Rosincrance, and Guildensterne.

  King. I like him not, nor stands it safe with vs,
To let his madnesse range. Therefore prepare you,
I your Commission will forthwith dispatch,
And he to England shall along with you:
The termes of our estate, may not endure
Hazard so dangerous as doth hourely grow
Out of his Lunacies

   Guild. We will our selues prouide:
Most holie and Religious feare it is
To keepe those many many bodies safe
That liue and feede vpon your Maiestie

   Rosin. The single
And peculiar life is bound
With all the strength and Armour of the minde,
To keepe it selfe from noyance: but much more,
That Spirit, vpon whose spirit depends and rests
The liues of many, the cease of Maiestie
Dies not alone; but like a Gulfe doth draw
What's neere it, with it. It is a massie wheele
Fixt on the Somnet of the highest Mount.
To whose huge Spoakes, ten thousand lesser things
Are mortiz'd and adioyn'd: which when it falles,
Each small annexment, pettie consequence
Attends the boystrous Ruine. Neuer alone
Did the King sighe, but with a generall grone

   King. Arme you, I pray you to this speedie Voyage;
For we will Fetters put vpon this feare,
Which now goes too free-footed

   Both. We will haste vs.

Exeunt. Gent.

Enter Polonius.

  Pol. My Lord, he's going to his Mothers Closset:
Behinde the Arras Ile conuey my selfe
To heare the Processe. Ile warrant shee'l tax him home,
And as you said, and wisely was it said,
'Tis meete that some more audience then a Mother,
Since Nature makes them partiall, should o're-heare
The speech of vantage. Fare you well my Liege,
Ile call vpon you ere you go to bed,
And tell you what I know

   King. Thankes deere my Lord.
Oh my offence is ranke, it smels to heauen,
It hath the primall eldest curse vpon't,
A Brothers murther. Pray can I not,
Though inclination be as sharpe as will:
My stronger guilt, defeats my strong intent,
And like a man to double businesse bound,
I stand in pause where I shall first begin,
And both neglect; what if this cursed hand
Were thicker then it selfe with Brothers blood,
Is there not Raine enough in the sweet Heauens
To wash it white as Snow? Whereto serues mercy,
But to confront the visage of Offence?
And what's in Prayer, but this two-fold force,
To be fore-stalled ere we come to fall,
Or pardon'd being downe? Then Ile looke vp,
My fault is past. But oh, what forme of Prayer
Can serue my turne? Forgiue me my foule Murther:
That cannot be, since I am still possest
Of those effects for which I did the Murther.
My Crowne, mine owne Ambition, and my Queene:
May one be pardon'd, and retaine th' offence?
In the corrupted currants of this world,
Offences gilded hand may shoue by Iustice,
And oft 'tis seene, the wicked prize it selfe
Buyes out the Law; but 'tis not so aboue,
There is no shuffling, there the Action lyes
In his true Nature, and we our selues compell'd
Euen to the teeth and forehead of our faults,
To giue in euidence. What then? What rests?
Try what Repentance can. What can it not?
Yet what can it, when one cannot repent?
Oh wretched state! Oh bosome, blacke as death!
Oh limed soule, that strugling to be free,
Art more ingag'd: Helpe Angels, make assay:
Bow stubborne knees, and heart with strings of Steele,
Be soft as sinewes of the new-borne Babe,
All may be well.
Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Now might I do it pat, now he is praying,
And now Ile doo't, and so he goes to Heauen,
And so am I reueng'd: that would be scann'd,
A Villaine killes my Father, and for that
I his foule Sonne, do this same Villaine send
To heauen. Oh this is hyre and Sallery, not Reuenge.
He tooke my Father grossely, full of bread,
With all his Crimes broad blowne, as fresh as May,
And how his Audit stands, who knowes, saue Heauen:
But in our circumstance and course of thought
'Tis heauie with him: and am I then reueng'd,
To take him in the purging of his Soule,
When he is fit and season'd for his passage? No.
Vp Sword, and know thou a more horrid hent
When he is drunke asleepe: or in his Rage,
Or in th' incestuous pleasure of his bed,
At gaming, swearing, or about some acte
That ha's no rellish of Saluation in't,
Then trip him, that his heeles may kicke at Heauen,
And that his Soule may be as damn'd and blacke
As Hell, whereto it goes. My Mother stayes,
This Physicke but prolongs thy sickly dayes.
Enter.

  King. My words flye vp, my thoughts remain below,
Words without thoughts, neuer to Heauen go.
Enter.

Enter Queene and Polonius.

  Pol. He will come straight:
Looke you lay home to him,
Tell him his prankes haue been too broad to beare with,
And that your Grace hath screen'd, and stoode betweene
Much heate, and him. Ile silence me e'ene heere:
Pray you be round with him

   Ham. within. Mother, mother, mother

   Qu. Ile warrant you, feare me not.
Withdraw, I heare him coming.
Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Now Mother, what's the matter?
  Qu. Hamlet, thou hast thy Father much offended


   Ham. Mother, you haue my Father much offended

   Qu. Come, come, you answer with an idle tongue

   Ham. Go, go, you question with an idle tongue

   Qu. Why how now Hamlet?
  Ham. Whats the matter now?
  Qu. Haue you forgot me?
  Ham. No by the Rood, not so:
You are the Queene, your Husbands Brothers wife,
But would you were not so. You are my Mother

   Qu. Nay, then Ile set those to you that can speake

   Ham. Come, come, and sit you downe, you shall not
boudge:
You go not till I set you vp a glasse,
Where you may see the inmost part of you?
  Qu. What wilt thou do? thou wilt not murther me?
Helpe, helpe, hoa

   Pol. What hoa, helpe, helpe, helpe

   Ham. How now, a Rat? dead for a Ducate, dead

   Pol. Oh I am slaine.

Killes Polonius

   Qu. Oh me, what hast thou done?
  Ham. Nay I know not, is it the King?
  Qu. Oh what a rash, and bloody deed is this?
  Ham. A bloody deed, almost as bad good Mother,
As kill a King, and marrie with his Brother

   Qu. As kill a King?
  Ham. I Lady, 'twas my word.
Thou wretched, rash, intruding foole farewell,
I tooke thee for thy Betters, take thy Fortune,
Thou find'st to be too busie, is some danger.
Leaue wringing of your hands, peace, sit you downe,
And let me wring your heart, for so I shall
If it be made of penetrable stuffe;
If damned Custome haue not braz'd it so,
That it is proofe and bulwarke against Sense

   Qu. What haue I done, that thou dar'st wag thy tong,
In noise so rude against me?
  Ham. Such an Act
That blurres the grace and blush of Modestie,
Cals Vertue Hypocrite, takes off the Rose
From the faire forehead of an innocent loue,
And makes a blister there. Makes marriage vowes
As false as Dicers Oathes. Oh such a deed,
As from the body of Contraction pluckes
The very soule, and sweete Religion makes
A rapsidie of words. Heauens face doth glow,
Yea this solidity and compound masse,
With tristfull visage as against the doome,
Is thought-sicke at the act

   Qu. Aye me; what act, that roares so lowd, & thunders
in the Index

   Ham. Looke heere vpon this Picture, and on this,
The counterfet presentment of two Brothers:
See what a grace was seated on his Brow,
Hyperions curles, the front of Ioue himselfe,
An eye like Mars, to threaten or command
A Station, like the Herald Mercurie
New lighted on a heauen-kissing hill:
A Combination, and a forme indeed,
Where euery God did seeme to set his Seale,
To giue the world assurance of a man.
This was your Husband. Looke you now what followes.
Heere is your Husband, like a Mildew'd eare
Blasting his wholsom breath. Haue you eyes?
Could you on this faire Mountaine leaue to feed,
And batten on this Moore? Ha? Haue you eyes?
You cannot call it Loue: For at your age,
The hey-day in the blood is tame, it's humble,
And waites vpon the Iudgement: and what Iudgement
Would step from this, to this? What diuell was't,
That thus hath cousend you at hoodman-blinde?
O Shame! where is thy Blush? Rebellious Hell,
If thou canst mutine in a Matrons bones,
To flaming youth, let Vertue be as waxe.
And melt in her owne fire. Proclaime no shame,
When the compulsiue Ardure giues the charge,
Since Frost it selfe, as actiuely doth burne,
As Reason panders Will

   Qu. O Hamlet, speake no more.
Thou turn'st mine eyes into my very soule,
And there I see such blacke and grained spots,
As will not leaue their Tinct

   Ham. Nay, but to liue
In the ranke sweat of an enseamed bed,
Stew'd in Corruption; honying and making loue
Ouer the nasty Stye

   Qu. Oh speake to me, no more,
These words like Daggers enter in mine eares.
No more sweet Hamlet

   Ham. A Murderer, and a Villaine:
A Slaue, that is not twentieth part the tythe
Of your precedent Lord. A vice of Kings,
A Cutpurse of the Empire and the Rule.
That from a shelfe, the precious Diadem stole,
And put it in his Pocket

   Qu. No more.
Enter Ghost.

  Ham. A King of shreds and patches.
Saue me; and houer o're me with your wings
You heauenly Guards. What would your gracious figure?
  Qu. Alas he's mad

   Ham. Do you not come your tardy Sonne to chide,
That laps't in Time and Passion, lets go by
Th' important acting of your dread command? Oh say

   Ghost. Do not forget: this Visitation
Is but to whet thy almost blunted purpose.
But looke, Amazement on thy Mother sits;
O step betweene her, and her fighting Soule,
Conceit in weakest bodies, strongest workes.
Speake to her Hamlet

   Ham. How is it with you Lady?
  Qu. Alas, how is't with you?
That you bend your eye on vacancie,
And with their corporall ayre do hold discourse.
Forth at your eyes, your spirits wildely peepe,
And as the sleeping Soldiours in th' Alarme,
Your bedded haire, like life in excrements,
Start vp, and stand an end. Oh gentle Sonne,
Vpon the heate and flame of thy distemper
Sprinkle coole patience. Whereon do you looke?
  Ham. On him, on him: look you how pale he glares,
His forme and cause conioyn'd, preaching to stones,
Would make them capeable. Do not looke vpon me,
Least with this pitteous action you conuert
My sterne effects: then what I haue to do,
Will want true colour; teares perchance for blood

   Qu. To who do you speake this?
  Ham. Do you see nothing there?
  Qu. Nothing at all, yet all that is I see

   Ham. Nor did you nothing heare?
  Qu. No, nothing but our selues

   Ham. Why look you there: looke how it steals away:
My Father in his habite, as he liued,
Looke where he goes euen now out at the Portall.
Enter.

  Qu. This is the very coynage of your Braine,
This bodilesse Creation extasie is very cunning in

   Ham. Extasie?
My Pulse as yours doth temperately keepe time,
And makes as healthfull Musicke. It is not madnesse
That I haue vttered; bring me to the Test
And I the matter will re-word: which madnesse
Would gamboll from. Mother, for loue of Grace,
Lay not a flattering Vnction to your soule,
That not your trespasse, but my madnesse speakes:
It will but skin and filme the Vlcerous place,
Whil'st ranke Corruption mining all within,
Infects vnseene. Confesse your selfe to Heauen,
Repent what's past, auoyd what is to come,
And do not spred the Compost on the Weedes,
To make them ranke. Forgiue me this my Vertue,
For in the fatnesse of this pursie times,
Vertue it selfe, of Vice must pardon begge,
Yea courb, and woe, for leaue to do him good

   Qu. Oh Hamlet,
Thou hast cleft my heart in twaine

   Ham. O throw away the worser part of it,
And liue the purer with the other halfe.
Good night, but go not to mine Vnkles bed,
Assume a Vertue, if you haue it not, refraine to night,
And that shall lend a kinde of easinesse
To the next abstinence. Once more goodnight,
And when you are desirous to be blest,
Ile blessing begge of you. For this same Lord,
I do repent: but heauen hath pleas'd it so,
To punish me with this, and this with me,
That I must be their Scourge and Minister.
I will bestow him, and will answer well
The death I gaue him: so againe, good night.
I must be cruell, onely to be kinde;
Thus bad begins and worse remaines behinde

   Qu. What shall I do?
  Ham. Not this by no meanes that I bid you do:
Let the blunt King tempt you againe to bed,
Pinch Wanton on your cheeke, call you his Mouse,
And let him for a paire of reechie kisses,
Or padling in your necke with his damn'd Fingers,
Make you to rauell all this matter out,
That I essentially am not in madnesse,
But made in craft. 'Twere good you let him know,
For who that's but a Queene, faire, sober, wise,
Would from a Paddocke, from a Bat, a Gibbe,
Such deere concernings hide, Who would do so,
No in despight of Sense and Secrecie,
Vnpegge the Basket on the houses top:
Let the Birds flye, and like the famous Ape
To try Conclusions in the Basket, creepe
And breake your owne necke downe

   Qu. Be thou assur'd, if words be made of breath,
And breath of life: I haue no life to breath
What thou hast saide to me

   Ham. I must to England, you know that?
  Qu. Alacke I had forgot: 'Tis so concluded on

   Ham. This man shall set me packing:
Ile lugge the Guts into the Neighbor roome,
Mother goodnight. Indeede this Counsellor
Is now most still, most secret, and most graue,
Who was in life, a foolish prating Knaue.
Come sir, to draw toward an end with you.
Good night Mother.
Exit Hamlet tugging in Polonius.

Enter King.

  King. There's matters in these sighes.
These profound heaues
You must translate; Tis fit we vnderstand them.
Where is your Sonne?
  Qu. Ah my good Lord, what haue I seene to night?
  King. What Gertrude? How do's Hamlet?
  Qu. Mad as the Seas, and winde, when both contend
Which is the Mightier, in his lawlesse fit
Behinde the Arras, hearing something stirre,
He whips his Rapier out, and cries a Rat, a Rat,
And in his brainish apprehension killes
The vnseene good old man

   King. Oh heauy deed:
It had bin so with vs had we beene there:
His Liberty is full of threats to all,
To you your selfe, to vs, to euery one.
Alas, how shall this bloody deede be answered?
It will be laide to vs, whose prouidence
Should haue kept short, restrain'd, and out of haunt,
This mad yong man. But so much was our loue,
We would not vnderstand what was most fit,
But like the Owner of a foule disease,
To keepe it from divulging, let's it feede
Euen on the pith of life. Where is he gone?
  Qu. To draw apart the body he hath kild,
O're whom his very madnesse like some Oare
Among a Minerall of Mettels base
Shewes it selfe pure. He weepes for what is done

   King. Oh Gertrude, come away:
The Sun no sooner shall the Mountaines touch,
But we will ship him hence, and this vilde deed,
We must with all our Maiesty and Skill
Both countenance, and excuse.
Enter Ros. & Guild.

Ho Guildenstern:
Friends both go ioyne you with some further ayde:
Hamlet in madnesse hath Polonius slaine,
And from his Mother Clossets hath he drag'd him.
Go seeke him out, speake faire, and bring the body
Into the Chappell. I pray you hast in this.
Exit Gent.

Come Gertrude, wee'l call vp our wisest friends,
To let them know both what we meane to do,
And what's vntimely done. Oh come away,
My soule is full of discord and dismay.

Exeunt.

Enter Hamlet.

  Ham. Safely stowed

   Gentlemen within. Hamlet, Lord Hamlet

   Ham. What noise? Who cals on Hamlet?
Oh heere they come.
Enter Ros. and Guildensterne.

  Ro. What haue you done my Lord with the dead body?
  Ham. Compounded it with dust, whereto 'tis Kinne

   Rosin. Tell vs where 'tis, that we may take it thence,
And beare it to the Chappell

   Ham. Do not beleeue it

   Rosin. Beleeue what?
  Ham. That I can keepe your counsell, and not mine
owne. Besides, to be demanded of a Spundge, what replication
should be made by the Sonne of a King

   Rosin. Take you me for a Spundge, my Lord?
  Ham. I sir, that sokes vp the Kings Countenance, his
Rewards, his Authorities (but such Officers do the King
best seruice in the end. He keepes them like an Ape in
the corner of his iaw, first mouth'd to be last swallowed,
when he needes what you haue glean'd, it is but squeezing
you, and Spundge you shall be dry againe

   Rosin. I vnderstand you not my Lord

   Ham. I am glad of it: a knauish speech sleepes in a
foolish eare

   Rosin. My Lord, you must tell vs where the body is,
and go with vs to the King

   Ham. The body is with the King, but the King is not
with the body. The King, is a thing-
  Guild. A thing my Lord?
  Ham. Of nothing: bring me to him, hide Fox, and all
after.

Exeunt.

Enter King.

  King. I haue sent to seeke him, and to find the bodie:
How dangerous is it that this man goes loose:
Yet must not we put the strong Law on him:
Hee's loued of the distracted multitude,
Who like not in their iudgement, but their eyes:
And where 'tis so, th' Offenders scourge is weigh'd
But neerer the offence: to beare all smooth, and euen,
This sodaine sending him away, must seeme
Deliberate pause, diseases desperate growne,
By desperate appliance are releeued,
Or not at all.
Enter Rosincrane.

How now? What hath befalne?
  Rosin. Where the dead body is bestow'd my Lord,
We cannot get from him

   King. But where is he?
  Rosin. Without my Lord, guarded to know your
pleasure

   King. Bring him before vs

   Rosin. Hoa, Guildensterne? Bring in my Lord.
Enter Hamlet and Guildensterne.

  King. Now Hamlet, where's Polonius?
  Ham. At Supper

   King. At Supper? Where?
  Ham. Not where he eats, but where he is eaten, a certaine
conuocation of wormes are e'ne at him. Your worm
is your onely Emperor for diet. We fat all creatures else
to fat vs, and we fat our selfe for Magots. Your fat King,
and your leane Begger is but variable seruice to dishes,
but to one Table that's the end

   King. What dost thou meane by this?
  Ham. Nothing but to shew you how a King may go
a Progresse through the guts of a Begger

   King. Where is Polonius

   Ham. In heauen, send thither to see. If your Messenger
finde him not there, seeke him i'th other place your
selfe: but indeed, if you finde him not this moneth, you
shall nose him as you go vp the staires into the Lobby

   King. Go seeke him there

   Ham. He will stay till ye come

   K. Hamlet, this deed of thine, for thine especial safety
Which we do tender, as we deerely greeue
For that which thou hast done, must send thee hence
With fierie Quicknesse. Therefore prepare thy selfe,
The Barke is readie, and the winde at helpe,
Th' Associates tend, and euery thing at bent
For England

   Ham. For England?
  King. I Hamlet

   Ham. Good

   King. So is it, if thou knew'st our purposes

   Ham. I see a Cherube that see's him: but come, for
England. Farewell deere Mother

   King. Thy louing Father Hamlet

   Hamlet. My Mother: Father and Mother is man and
wife: man & wife is one flesh, and so my mother. Come,
for England.

Exit

  King. Follow him at foote,
Tempt him with speed aboord:
Delay it not, Ile haue him hence to night.
Away, for euery thing is Seal'd and done
That else leanes on th' Affaire, pray you make hast.
And England, if my loue thou holdst at ought,
As my great power thereof may giue thee sense,
Since yet thy Cicatrice lookes raw and red
After the Danish Sword, and thy free awe
Payes homage to vs; thou maist not coldly set
Our Soueraigne Processe, which imports at full
By Letters coniuring to that effect
The present death of Hamlet. Do it England,
For like the Hecticke in my blood he rages,
And thou must cure me: Till I know 'tis done,
How ere my happes, my ioyes were ne're begun.

Exit

Enter Fortinbras with an Armie.

  For. Go Captaine, from me greet the Danish King,
Tell him that by his license, Fortinbras
Claimes the conueyance of a promis'd March
Ouer his Kingdome. You know the Rendeuous:
If that his Maiesty would ought with vs,
We shall expresse our dutie in his eye,
And let him know so

   Cap. I will doo't, my Lord

   For. Go safely on.
Enter.

Enter Queene and Horatio.

  Qu. I will not speake with her

   Hor. She is importunate, indeed distract, her moode
will needs be pittied

   Qu. What would she haue?
  Hor. She speakes much of her Father; saies she heares
There's trickes i'th' world, and hems, and beats her heart,
Spurnes enuiously at Strawes, speakes things in doubt,
That carry but halfe sense: Her speech is nothing,
Yet the vnshaped vse of it doth moue
The hearers to Collection; they ayme at it,
And botch the words vp fit to their owne thoughts,
Which as her winkes, and nods, and gestures yeeld them,
Indeed would make one thinke there would be thought,
Though nothing sure, yet much vnhappily

   Qu. 'Twere good she were spoken with,
For she may strew dangerous coniectures
In ill breeding minds. Let her come in.
To my sicke soule (as sinnes true Nature is)
Each toy seemes Prologue, to some great amisse,
So full of Artlesse iealousie is guilt,
It spill's it selfe, in fearing to be spilt.
Enter Ophelia distracted.

  Ophe. Where is the beauteous Maiesty of Denmark

   Qu. How now Ophelia?
  Ophe. How should I your true loue know from another one?
By his Cockle hat and staffe, and his Sandal shoone

   Qu. Alas sweet Lady: what imports this Song?
  Ophe. Say you? Nay pray you marke.
He is dead and gone Lady, he is dead and gone,
At his head a grasse-greene Turfe, at his heeles a stone.
Enter King.

  Qu. Nay but Ophelia

   Ophe. Pray you marke.
White his Shrow'd as the Mountaine Snow

   Qu. Alas, looke heere my Lord

   Ophe. Larded with sweet Flowers:
Which bewept to the graue did not go,
With true-loue showres

   King. How do ye, pretty Lady?
  Ophe. Well, God dil'd you. They say the Owle was
a Bakers daughter. Lord, wee know what we are, but
know not what we may be. God be at your Table

   King. Conceit vpon her Father

   Ophe. Pray you let's haue no words of this: but when
they aske you what it meanes, say you this:
To morrow is S[aint]. Valentines day, all in the morning betime,
And I a Maid at your Window, to be your Valentine.
Then vp he rose, & don'd his clothes, & dupt the chamber dore,
Let in the Maid, that out a Maid, neuer departed more

   King. Pretty Ophelia

   Ophe. Indeed la? without an oath Ile make an end ont.
By gis, and by S[aint]. Charity,
Alacke, and fie for shame:
Yong men wil doo't, if they come too't,
By Cocke they are too blame.
Quoth she before you tumbled me,
You promis'd me to Wed:
So would I ha done by yonder Sunne,
And thou hadst not come to my bed

   King. How long hath she bin thus?
  Ophe. I hope all will be well. We must bee patient,
but I cannot choose but weepe, to thinke they should
lay him i'th' cold ground: My brother shall knowe of it,
and so I thanke you for your good counsell. Come, my
Coach: Goodnight Ladies: Goodnight sweet Ladies:
Goodnight, goodnight.
Enter.

  King. Follow her close,
Giue her good watch I pray you:
Oh this is the poyson of deepe greefe, it springs
All from her Fathers death. Oh Gertrude, Gertrude,
When sorrowes comes, they come not single spies,
But in Battalians. First, her Father slaine,
Next your Sonne gone, and he most violent Author
Of his owne iust remoue: the people muddied,
Thicke and vnwholsome in their thoughts, and whispers
For good Polonius death; and we haue done but greenly
In hugger mugger to interre him. Poore Ophelia
Diuided from her selfe, and her faire Iudgement,
Without the which we are Pictures, or meere Beasts.
Last, and as much containing as all these,
Her Brother is in secret come from France,
Keepes on his wonder, keepes himselfe in clouds,
And wants not Buzzers to infect his eare
With pestilent Speeches of his Fathers death,
Where in necessitie of matter Beggard,
Will nothing sticke our persons to Arraigne
In eare and eare. O my deere Gertrude, this,
Like to a murdering Peece in many places,
Giues me superfluous death.

A Noise within.

Enter a Messenger.

  Qu. Alacke, what noyse is this?
  King. Where are my Switzers?
Let them guard the doore. What is the matter?
  Mes. Saue your selfe, my Lord.
The Ocean (ouer-peering of his List)
Eates not the Flats with more impittious haste
Then young Laertes, in a Riotous head,
Ore-beares your Officers, the rabble call him Lord,
And as the world were now but to begin,
Antiquity forgot, Custome not knowne,
The Ratifiers and props of euery word,
They cry choose we? Laertes shall be King,
Caps, hands, and tongues, applaud it to the clouds,
Laertes shall be King, Laertes King

   Qu. How cheerefully on the false Traile they cry,
Oh this is Counter you false Danish Dogges.

Noise within. Enter Laertes.

  King. The doores are broke

   Laer. Where is the King, sirs? Stand you all without

   All. No, let's come in

   Laer. I pray you giue me leaue

   Al. We will, we will

   Laer. I thanke you: Keepe the doore.
Oh thou vilde King, giue me my Father

   Qu. Calmely good Laertes

   Laer. That drop of blood, that calmes
Proclaimes me Bastard:
Cries Cuckold to my Father, brands the Harlot
Euen heere betweene the chaste vnsmirched brow
Of my true Mother

   King. What is the cause Laertes,
That thy Rebellion lookes so Gyant-like?
Let him go Gertrude: Do not feare our person:
There's such Diuinity doth hedge a King,
That Treason can but peepe to what it would,
Acts little of his will. Tell me Laertes,
Why thou art thus Incenst? Let him go Gertrude.
Speake man

   Laer. Where's my Father?
  King. Dead

   Qu. But not by him

   King. Let him demand his fill

   Laer. How came he dead? Ile not be Iuggel'd with.
To hell Allegeance: Vowes, to the blackest diuell.
Conscience and Grace, to the profoundest Pit.
I dare Damnation: to this point I stand,
That both the worlds I giue to negligence,
Let come what comes: onely Ile be reueng'd
Most throughly for my Father

   King. Who shall stay you?
  Laer. My Will, not all the world,
And for my meanes, Ile husband them so well,
They shall go farre with little

   King. Good Laertes:
If you desire to know the certaintie
Of your deere Fathers death, if writ in your reuenge,
That Soop-stake you will draw both Friend and Foe,
Winner and Looser

   Laer. None but his Enemies

   King. Will you know them then

   La. To his good Friends, thus wide Ile ope my Armes:
And like the kinde Life-rend'ring Politician,
Repast them with my blood

   King. Why now you speake
Like a good Childe, and a true Gentleman.
That I am guiltlesse of your Fathers death,
And am most sensible in greefe for it,
It shall as leuell to your Iudgement pierce
As day do's to your eye.

A noise within. Let her come in.

Enter Ophelia.

  Laer. How now? what noise is that?
Oh heate drie vp my Braines, teares seuen times salt,
Burne out the Sence and Vertue of mine eye.
By Heauen, thy madnesse shall be payed by waight,
Till our Scale turnes the beame. Oh Rose of May,
Deere Maid, kinde Sister, sweet Ophelia:
Oh Heauens, is't possible, a yong Maids wits,
Should be as mortall as an old mans life?
Nature is fine in Loue, and where 'tis fine,
It sends some precious instance of it selfe
After the thing it loues

   Ophe. They bore him bare fac'd on the Beer,
Hey non nony, nony, hey nony:
And on his graue raines many a teare,
Fare you well my Doue

   Laer. Had'st thou thy wits, and did'st perswade Reuenge,
it could not moue thus

   Ophe. You must sing downe a-downe, and you call
him a-downe-a. Oh, how the wheele becomes it? It is
the false Steward that stole his masters daughter

   Laer. This nothings more then matter

   Ophe. There's Rosemary, that's for Remembraunce.
Pray loue remember: and there is Paconcies, that's for
Thoughts

   Laer. A document in madnesse, thoughts & remembrance
fitted

   Ophe. There's Fennell for you, and Columbines: ther's
Rew for you, and heere's some for me. Wee may call it
Herbe-Grace a Sundaies: Oh you must weare your Rew
with a difference. There's a Daysie, I would giue you
some Violets, but they wither'd all when my Father dyed:
They say, he made a good end;
For bonny sweet Robin is all my ioy

   Laer. Thought, and Affliction, Passion, Hell it selfe:
She turnes to Fauour, and to prettinesse

   Ophe. And will he not come againe,
And will he not come againe:
No, no, he is dead, go to thy Death-bed,
He neuer wil come againe.
His Beard as white as Snow,
All Flaxen was his Pole:
He is gone, he is gone, and we cast away mone,
Gramercy on his Soule.
And of all Christian Soules, I pray God.
God buy ye.

Exeunt. Ophelia

  Laer. Do you see this, you Gods?
  King. Laertes, I must common with your greefe,
Or you deny me right: go but apart,
Make choice of whom your wisest Friends you will,
And they shall heare and iudge 'twixt you and me;
If by direct or by Colaterall hand
They finde vs touch'd, we will our Kingdome giue,
Our Crowne, our Life, and all that we call Ours
To you in satisfaction. But if not,
Be you content to lend your patience to vs,
And we shall ioyntly labour with your soule
To giue it due content

   Laer. Let this be so:
His meanes of death, his obscure buriall;
No Trophee, Sword, nor Hatchment o're his bones,
No Noble rite, nor formall ostentation,
Cry to be heard, as 'twere from Heauen to Earth,
That I must call in question

   King. So you shall:
And where th' offence is, let the great Axe fall.
I pray you go with me.

Exeunt.

Enter Horatio, with an Attendant.

  Hora. What are they that would speake with me?
  Ser. Saylors sir, they say they haue Letters for you

   Hor. Let them come in,
I do not know from what part of the world
I should be greeted, if not from Lord Hamlet.
Enter Saylor.

  Say. God blesse you Sir

   Hor. Let him blesse thee too

   Say. Hee shall Sir, and't please him. There's a Letter
for you Sir: It comes from th' Ambassadours that was
bound for England, if your name be Horatio, as I am let
to know it is.

Reads the Letter.

Horatio, When thou shalt haue ouerlook'd this, giue these
Fellowes some meanes to the King: They haue Letters
for him. Ere we were two dayes old at Sea, a Pyrate of very
Warlicke appointment gaue vs Chace. Finding our selues too
slow of Saile, we put on a compelled Valour. In the Grapple, I
boorded them: On the instant they got cleare of our Shippe, so
I alone became their Prisoner. They haue dealt with mee, like
Theeues of Mercy, but they knew what they did. I am to doe
a good turne for them. Let the King haue the Letters I haue
sent, and repaire thou to me with as much hast as thou wouldest
flye death. I haue words to speake in your eare, will make thee
dumbe, yet are they much too light for the bore of the Matter.
These good Fellowes will bring thee where I am. Rosincrance
and Guildensterne, hold their course for England. Of them
I haue much to tell thee, Farewell.
He that thou knowest thine,
Hamlet.
Come, I will giue you way for these your Letters,
And do't the speedier, that you may direct me
To him from whom you brought them.
Enter.

Enter King and Laertes.

  King. Now must your conscience my acquittance seal,
And you must put me in your heart for Friend,
Sith you haue heard, and with a knowing eare,
That he which hath your Noble Father slaine,
Pursued my life

   Laer. It well appeares. But tell me,
Why you proceeded not against these feates,
So crimefull, and so Capitall in Nature,
As by your Safety, Wisedome, all things else,
You mainly were stirr'd vp?
  King. O for two speciall Reasons,
Which may to you (perhaps) seeme much vnsinnowed,
And yet to me they are strong. The Queen his Mother,
Liues almost by his lookes: and for my selfe,
My Vertue or my Plague, be it either which,
She's so coniunctiue to my life, and soule;
That as the Starre moues not but in his Sphere,
I could not but by her. The other Motiue,
Why to a publike count I might not go,
Is the great loue the generall gender beare him,
Who dipping all his Faults in their affection,
Would like the Spring that turneth Wood to Stone,
Conuert his Gyues to Graces. So that my Arrowes
Too slightly timbred for so loud a Winde,
Would haue reuerted to my Bow againe,
And not where I had arm'd them

   Laer. And so haue I a Noble Father lost,
A Sister driuen into desperate tearmes,
Who was (if praises may go backe againe)
Stood Challenger on mount of all the Age
For her perfections. But my reuenge will come

   King. Breake not your sleepes for that,
You must not thinke
That we are made of stuffe, so flat, and dull,
That we can let our Beard be shooke with danger,
And thinke it pastime. You shortly shall heare more,
I lou'd your Father, and we loue our Selfe,
And that I hope will teach you to imagine-
Enter a Messenger.

How now? What Newes?
  Mes. Letters my Lord from Hamlet, This to your
Maiesty: this to the Queene

   King. From Hamlet? Who brought them?
  Mes. Saylors my Lord they say, I saw them not:
They were giuen me by Claudio, he receiu'd them

   King. Laertes you shall heare them:
Leaue vs.

Exit Messenger

High and Mighty, you shall know I am set naked on your
Kingdome. To morrow shall I begge leaue to see your Kingly
Eyes. When I shall (first asking your Pardon thereunto) recount
th' Occasions of my sodaine, and more strange returne.
Hamlet.
What should this meane? Are all the rest come backe?
Or is it some abuse? Or no such thing?
  Laer. Know you the hand?
  Kin. 'Tis Hamlets Character, naked and in a Postscript
here he sayes alone: Can you aduise me?
  Laer. I'm lost in it my Lord; but let him come,
It warmes the very sicknesse in my heart,
That I shall liue and tell him to his teeth;
Thus diddest thou

   Kin. If it be so Laertes, as how should it be so:
How otherwise will you be rul'd by me?
  Laer. If so you'l not o'rerule me to a peace

   Kin. To thine owne peace: if he be now return'd,
As checking at his Voyage, and that he meanes
No more to vndertake it; I will worke him
To an exployt now ripe in my Deuice,
Vnder the which he shall not choose but fall;
And for his death no winde of blame shall breath,
But euen his Mother shall vncharge the practice,
And call it accident: Some two Monthes hence
Here was a Gentleman of Normandy,
I'ue seene my selfe, and seru'd against the French,
And they ran well on Horsebacke; but this Gallant
Had witchcraft in't; he grew into his Seat,
And to such wondrous doing brought his Horse,
As had he beene encorps't and demy-Natur'd
With the braue Beast, so farre he past my thought,
That I in forgery of shapes and trickes,
Come short of what he did

   Laer. A Norman was't?
  Kin. A Norman

   Laer. Vpon my life Lamound

   Kin. The very same

   Laer. I know him well, he is the Brooch indeed,
And Iemme of all our Nation

   Kin. Hee mad confession of you,
And gaue you such a Masterly report,
For Art and exercise in your defence;
And for your Rapier most especiall,
That he cryed out, t'would be a sight indeed,
If one could match you Sir. This report of his
Did Hamlet so envenom with his Enuy,
That he could nothing doe but wish and begge,
Your sodaine comming ore to play with him;
Now out of this

   Laer. Why out of this, my Lord?
  Kin. Laertes was your Father deare to you?
Or are you like the painting of a sorrow,
A face without a heart?
  Laer. Why aske you this?
  Kin. Not that I thinke you did not loue your Father,
But that I know Loue is begun by Time:
And that I see in passages of proofe,
Time qualifies the sparke and fire of it:
Hamlet comes backe: what would you vndertake,
To show your selfe your Fathers sonne indeed,
More then in words?
  Laer. To cut his throat i'th' Church

   Kin. No place indeed should murder Sancturize;
Reuenge should haue no bounds: but good Laertes
Will you doe this, keepe close within your Chamber,
Hamlet return'd, shall know you are come home:
Wee'l put on those shall praise your excellence,
And set a double varnish on the fame
The Frenchman gaue you, bring you in fine together,
And wager on your heads, he being remisse,
Most generous, and free from all contriuing,
Will not peruse the Foiles? So that with ease,
Or with a little shuffling, you may choose
A Sword vnbaited, and in a passe of practice,
Requit him for your Father

   Laer. I will doo't.
And for that purpose Ile annoint my Sword:
I bought an Vnction of a Mountebanke
So mortall, I but dipt a knife in it,
Where it drawes blood, no Cataplasme so rare,
Collected from all Simples that haue Vertue
Vnder the Moone, can saue the thing from death,
That is but scratcht withall: Ile touch my point,
With this contagion, that if I gall him slightly,
It may be death

   Kin. Let's further thinke of this,
Weigh what conuenience both of time and meanes
May fit vs to our shape, if this should faile;
And that our drift looke through our bad performance,
'Twere better not assaid; therefore this Proiect
Should haue a backe or second, that might hold,
If this should blast in proofe: Soft, let me see
Wee'l make a solemne wager on your commings,
I ha't: when in your motion you are hot and dry,
As make your bowts more violent to the end,
And that he cals for drinke; Ile haue prepar'd him
A Challice for the nonce; whereon but sipping,
If he by chance escape your venom'd stuck,
Our purpose may hold there; how sweet Queene.
Enter Queene.

  Queen. One woe doth tread vpon anothers heele,
So fast they'l follow: your Sister's drown'd Laertes

   Laer. Drown'd! O where?
  Queen. There is a Willow growes aslant a Brooke,
That shewes his hore leaues in the glassie streame:
There with fantasticke Garlands did she come,
Of Crow-flowers, Nettles, Daysies, and long Purples,
That liberall Shepheards giue a grosser name;
But our cold Maids doe Dead Mens Fingers call them:
There on the pendant boughes, her Coronet weeds
Clambring to hang; an enuious sliuer broke,
When downe the weedy Trophies, and her selfe,
Fell in the weeping Brooke, her cloathes spred wide,
And Mermaid-like, a while they bore her vp,
Which time she chaunted snatches of old tunes,
As one incapable of her owne distresse,
Or like a creature Natiue, and indued
Vnto that Element: but long it could not be,
Till that her garments, heauy with her drinke,
Pul'd the poore wretch from her melodious buy,
To muddy death

   Laer. Alas then, is she drown'd?
  Queen. Drown'd, drown'd

   Laer. Too much of water hast thou poore Ophelia,
And therefore I forbid my teares: but yet
It is our tricke, Nature her custome holds,
Let shame say what it will; when these are gone
The woman will be out: Adue my Lord,
I haue a speech of fire, that faine would blaze,
But that this folly doubts it.
Enter.

  Kin. Let's follow, Gertrude:
How much I had to doe to calme his rage?
Now feare I this will giue it start againe;
Therefore let's follow.

Exeunt.

Enter two Clownes.

  Clown. Is she to bee buried in Christian buriall, that
wilfully seekes her owne saluation?
  Other. I tell thee she is, and therefore make her Graue
straight, the Crowner hath sate on her, and finds it Christian
buriall

   Clo. How can that be, vnlesse she drowned her selfe in
her owne defence?
  Other. Why 'tis found so

   Clo. It must be Se offendendo, it cannot bee else: for
heere lies the point; If I drowne my selfe wittingly, it argues
an Act: and an Act hath three branches. It is an
Act to doe and to performe; argall she drown'd her selfe
wittingly

   Other. Nay but heare you Goodman Deluer

   Clown. Giue me leaue; heere lies the water; good:
heere stands the man; good: If the man goe to this water
and drowne himselfe; it is will he nill he, he goes;
marke you that? But if the water come to him & drowne
him; hee drownes not himselfe. Argall, hee that is not
guilty of his owne death, shortens not his owne life

   Other. But is this law?
  Clo. I marry is't, Crowners Quest Law

   Other. Will you ha the truth on't: if this had not
beene a Gentlewoman, shee should haue beene buried
out of Christian Buriall

   Clo. Why there thou say'st. And the more pitty that
great folke should haue countenance in this world to
drowne or hang themselues, more then their euen Christian.
Come, my Spade; there is no ancient Gentlemen,
but Gardiners, Ditchers and Graue-makers; they hold vp
Adams Profession

   Other. Was he a Gentleman?
  Clo. He was the first that euer bore Armes

   Other. Why he had none

   Clo. What, ar't a Heathen? how doth thou vnderstand
the Scripture? the Scripture sayes Adam dig'd;
could hee digge without Armes? Ile put another question
to thee; if thou answerest me not to the purpose, confesse
thy selfe-
  Other. Go too

   Clo. What is he that builds stronger then either the
Mason, the Shipwright, or the Carpenter?
  Other. The Gallowes maker; for that Frame outliues a
thousand Tenants

   Clo. I like thy wit well in good faith, the Gallowes
does well; but how does it well? it does well to those
that doe ill: now, thou dost ill to say the Gallowes is
built stronger then the Church: Argall, the Gallowes
may doe well to thee. Too't againe, Come

   Other. Who builds stronger then a Mason, a Shipwright,
or a Carpenter?
  Clo. I, tell me that, and vnyoake

   Other. Marry, now I can tell

   Clo. Too't

   Other. Masse, I cannot tell.
Enter Hamlet and Horatio a farre off.

  Clo. Cudgell thy braines no more about it; for your
dull Asse will not mend his pace with beating; and when
you are ask't this question next, say a Graue-maker: the
Houses that he makes, lasts till Doomesday: go, get thee
to Yaughan, fetch me a stoupe of Liquor.

Sings.

In youth when I did loue, did loue,
me thought it was very sweete:
To contract O the time for a my behoue,
O me thought there was nothing meete

   Ham. Ha's this fellow no feeling of his businesse, that
he sings at Graue-making?
  Hor. Custome hath made it in him a property of easinesse

   Ham. 'Tis ee'n so; the hand of little Imployment hath
the daintier sense

   Clowne sings. But Age with his stealing steps
hath caught me in his clutch:
And hath shipped me intill the Land,
as if I had neuer beene such

   Ham. That Scull had a tongue in it, and could sing
once: how the knaue iowles it to th' grownd, as if it
were Caines Iaw-bone, that did the first murther: It
might be the Pate of a Polititian which this Asse o're Offices:
one that could circumuent God, might it not?
  Hor. It might, my Lord

   Ham. Or of a Courtier, which could say, Good Morrow
sweet Lord: how dost thou, good Lord? this
might be my Lord such a one, that prais'd my Lord such
a ones Horse, when he meant to begge it; might it not?
  Hor. I, my Lord

   Ham. Why ee'n so: and now my Lady Wormes,
Chaplesse, and knockt about the Mazard with a Sextons
Spade; heere's fine Reuolution, if wee had the tricke to
see't. Did these bones cost no more the breeding, but
to play at Loggets with 'em? mine ake to thinke
on't

   Clowne sings. A Pickhaxe and a Spade, a Spade,
for and a shrowding-Sheete:
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
for such a Guest is meete

   Ham. There's another: why might not that bee the
Scull of a Lawyer? where be his Quiddits now? his
Quillets? his Cases? his Tenures, and his Tricks? why
doe's he suffer this rude knaue now to knocke him about
the Sconce with a dirty Shouell, and will not tell him of
his Action of Battery? hum. This fellow might be in's
time a great buyer of Land, with his Statutes, his Recognizances,
his Fines, his double Vouchers, his Recoueries:
Is this the fine of his Fines, and the recouery of his Recoueries,
to haue his fine Pate full of fine Dirt? will his
Vouchers vouch him no more of his Purchases, and double
ones too, then the length and breadth of a paire of
Indentures? the very Conueyances of his Lands will
hardly lye in this Boxe; and must the Inheritor himselfe
haue no more? ha?
  Hor. Not a iot more, my Lord

   Ham. Is not Parchment made of Sheep-skinnes?
  Hor. I my Lord, and of Calue-skinnes too

   Ham. They are Sheepe and Calues that seek out assurance
in that. I will speake to this fellow: whose Graue's
this Sir?
  Clo. Mine Sir:
O a Pit of Clay for to be made,
for such a Guest is meete

   Ham. I thinke it be thine indeed: for thou liest in't

   Clo. You lye out on't Sir, and therefore it is not yours:
for my part, I doe not lye in't; and yet it is mine

   Ham. Thou dost lye in't, to be in't and say 'tis thine:
'tis for the dead, not for the quicke, therefore thou
lyest

   Clo. 'Tis a quicke lye Sir, 'twill away againe from me
to you

   Ham. What man dost thou digge it for?
  Clo. For no man Sir

   Ham. What woman then?
  Clo. For none neither

   Ham. Who is to be buried in't?
  Clo. One that was a woman Sir; but rest her Soule,
shee's dead

   Ham. How absolute the knaue is? wee must speake
by the Carde, or equiuocation will vndoe vs: by the
Lord Horatio, these three yeares I haue taken note of it,
the Age is growne so picked, that the toe of the Pesant
comes so neere the heeles of our Courtier, hee galls his
Kibe. How long hast thou been a Graue-maker?
  Clo. Of all the dayes i'th' yeare, I came too't that day
that our last King Hamlet o'recame Fortinbras

   Ham. How long is that since?
  Clo. Cannot you tell that? euery foole can tell that:
It was the very day, that young Hamlet was borne, hee
that was mad, and sent into England

   Ham. I marry, why was he sent into England?
  Clo. Why, because he was mad; hee shall recouer his
wits there; or if he do not, it's no great matter there

   Ham. Why?
  Clo. 'Twill not be seene in him, there the men are as
mad as he

   Ham. How came he mad?
  Clo. Very strangely they say

   Ham. How strangely?
  Clo. Faith e'ene with loosing his wits

   Ham. Vpon what ground?
  Clo. Why heere in Denmarke: I haue bin sixeteene
heere, man and Boy thirty yeares

   Ham. How long will a man lie i'th' earth ere he rot?
  Clo. Ifaith, if he be not rotten before he die (as we haue
many pocky Coarses now adaies, that will scarce hold
the laying in) he will last you some eight yeare, or nine
yeare. A Tanner will last you nine yeare

   Ham. Why he, more then another?
  Clo. Why sir, his hide is so tan'd with his Trade, that
he will keepe out water a great while. And your water,
is a sore Decayer of your horson dead body. Heres a Scull
now: this Scul, has laine in the earth three & twenty years

   Ham. Whose was it?
  Clo. A whoreson mad Fellowes it was;
Whose doe you thinke it was?
  Ham. Nay, I know not

   Clo. A pestilence on him for a mad Rogue, a pour'd a
Flaggon of Renish on my head once. This same Scull
Sir, this same Scull sir, was Yoricks Scull, the Kings Iester

   Ham. This?
  Clo. E'ene that

   Ham. Let me see. Alas poore Yorick, I knew him Horatio,
a fellow of infinite Iest; of most excellent fancy, he
hath borne me on his backe a thousand times: And how
abhorred my Imagination is, my gorge rises at it. Heere
hung those lipps, that I haue kist I know not how oft.
Where be your Iibes now? Your Gambals? Your
Songs? Your flashes of Merriment that were wont to
set the Table on a Rore? No one now to mock your own
Ieering? Quite chopfalne? Now get you to my Ladies
Chamber, and tell her, let her paint an inch thicke, to this
fauour she must come. Make her laugh at that: prythee
Horatio tell me one thing

   Hor. What's that my Lord?
  Ham. Dost thou thinke Alexander lookt o'this fashion
i'th' earth?
  Hor. E'ene so

   Ham. And smelt so? Puh

   Hor. E'ene so, my Lord

   Ham. To what base vses we may returne Horatio.
Why may not Imagination trace the Noble dust of Alexander,
till he find it stopping a bunghole

   Hor. 'Twere to consider: to curiously to consider so

   Ham. No faith, not a iot. But to follow him thether
with modestie enough, & likeliehood to lead it; as thus.
Alexander died: Alexander was buried: Alexander returneth
into dust; the dust is earth; of earth we make
Lome, and why of that Lome (whereto he was conuerted)
might they not stopp a Beere-barrell?
Imperiall Caesar, dead and turn'd to clay,
Might stop a hole to keepe the winde away.
Oh, that that earth, which kept the world in awe,
Should patch a Wall, t' expell the winters flaw.
But soft, but soft, aside; heere comes the King.
Enter King, Queene, Laertes, and a Coffin, with Lords attendant.

The Queene, the Courtiers. Who is that they follow,
And with such maimed rites? This doth betoken,
The Coarse they follow, did with disperate hand,
Fore do it owne life; 'twas some Estate.
Couch we a while, and mark

   Laer. What Cerimony else?
  Ham. That is Laertes, a very Noble youth: Marke

   Laer. What Cerimony else?
  Priest. Her Obsequies haue bin as farre inlarg'd.
As we haue warrantie, her death was doubtfull,
And but that great Command, o're-swaies the order,
She should in ground vnsanctified haue lodg'd,
Till the last Trumpet. For charitable praier,
Shardes, Flints, and Peebles, should be throwne on her:
Yet heere she is allowed her Virgin Rites,
Her Maiden strewments, and the bringing home
Of Bell and Buriall

   Laer. Must there no more be done ?
  Priest. No more be done:
We should prophane the seruice of the dead,
To sing sage Requiem, and such rest to her
As to peace-parted Soules

   Laer. Lay her i'th' earth,
And from her faire and vnpolluted flesh,
May Violets spring. I tell thee (churlish Priest)
A Ministring Angell shall my Sister be,
When thou liest howling?
  Ham. What, the faire Ophelia?
  Queene. Sweets, to the sweet farewell.
I hop'd thou should'st haue bin my Hamlets wife:
I thought thy Bride-bed to haue deckt (sweet Maid)
And not t'haue strew'd thy Graue

   Laer. Oh terrible woer,
Fall ten times trebble, on that cursed head
Whose wicked deed, thy most Ingenious sence
Depriu'd thee of. Hold off the earth a while,
Till I haue caught her once more in mine armes:

Leaps in the graue.

Now pile your dust, vpon the quicke, and dead,
Till of this flat a Mountaine you haue made,
To o're top old Pelion, or the skyish head
Of blew Olympus

   Ham. What is he, whose griefes
Beares such an Emphasis? whose phrase of Sorrow
Coniure the wandring Starres, and makes them stand
Like wonder-wounded hearers? This is I,
Hamlet the Dane

   Laer. The deuill take thy soule

   Ham. Thou prai'st not well,
I prythee take thy fingers from my throat;
Sir though I am not Spleenatiue, and rash,
Yet haue I something in me dangerous,
Which let thy wisenesse feare. Away thy hand

   King. Pluck them asunder

   Qu. Hamlet, Hamlet

   Gen. Good my Lord be quiet

   Ham. Why I will fight with him vppon this Theme.
Vntill my eielids will no longer wag

   Qu. Oh my Sonne, what Theame?
  Ham. I lou'd Ophelia; fortie thousand Brothers
Could not (with all there quantitie of Loue)
Make vp my summe. What wilt thou do for her?
  King. Oh he is mad Laertes,
  Qu. For loue of God forbeare him

   Ham. Come show me what thou'lt doe.
Woo't weepe? Woo't fight? Woo't teare thy selfe?
Woo't drinke vp Esile, eate a Crocodile?
Ile doo't. Dost thou come heere to whine;
To outface me with leaping in her Graue?
Be buried quicke with her, and so will I.
And if thou prate of Mountaines; let them throw
Millions of Akers on vs; till our ground
Sindging his pate against the burning Zone,
Make Ossa like a wart. Nay, and thou'lt mouth,
Ile rant as well as thou

   Kin. This is meere Madnesse:
And thus awhile the fit will worke on him:
Anon as patient as the female Doue,
When that her Golden Cuplet are disclos'd;
His silence will sit drooping

   Ham. Heare you Sir:
What is the reason that you vse me thus?
I lou'd you euer; but it is no matter:
Let Hercules himselfe doe what he may,
The Cat will Mew, and Dogge will haue his day.
Enter.

  Kin. I pray you good Horatio wait vpon him,
Strengthen your patience in our last nights speech,
Wee'l put the matter to the present push:
Good Gertrude set some watch ouer your Sonne,
This Graue shall haue a liuing Monument:
An houre of quiet shortly shall we see;
Till then, in patience our proceeding be.

Exeunt.

Enter Hamlet and Horatio

   Ham. So much for this Sir; now let me see the other,
You doe remember all the Circumstance

   Hor. Remember it my Lord?
  Ham. Sir, in my heart there was a kinde of fighting,
That would not let me sleepe; me thought I lay
Worse then the mutines in the Bilboes, rashly,
(And praise be rashnesse for it) let vs know,
Our indiscretion sometimes serues vs well,
When our deare plots do paule, and that should teach vs,
There's a Diuinity that shapes our ends,
Rough-hew them how we will

   Hor. That is most certaine

   Ham. Vp from my Cabin
My sea-gowne scarft about me in the darke,
Grop'd I to finde out them; had my desire,
Finger'd their Packet, and in fine, withdrew
To mine owne roome againe, making so bold,
(My feares forgetting manners) to vnseale
Their grand Commission, where I found Horatio,
Oh royall knauery: An exact command,
Larded with many seuerall sorts of reason;
Importing Denmarks health, and Englands too,
With hoo, such Bugges and Goblins in my life,
That on the superuize no leasure bated,
No not to stay the grinding of the Axe,
My head should be struck off

   Hor. Ist possible?
  Ham. Here's the Commission, read it at more leysure:
But wilt thou heare me how I did proceed?
  Hor. I beseech you

   Ham. Being thus benetted round with Villaines,
Ere I could make a Prologue to my braines,
They had begun the Play. I sate me downe,
Deuis'd a new Commission, wrote it faire,
I once did hold it as our Statists doe,
A basenesse to write faire; and laboured much
How to forget that learning: but Sir now,
It did me Yeomans seriuce: wilt thou know
The effects of what I wrote?
  Hor. I, good my Lord

   Ham. An earnest Coniuration from the King,
As England was his faithfull Tributary,
As loue betweene them, as the Palme should flourish,
As Peace should still her wheaten Garland weare,
And stand a Comma 'tweene their amities,
And many such like Assis of great charge,
That on the view and know of these Contents,
Without debatement further, more or lesse,
He should the bearers put to sodaine death,
Not shriuing time allowed

   Hor. How was this seal'd?
  Ham. Why, euen in that was Heauen ordinate;
I had my fathers Signet in my Purse,
Which was the Modell of that Danish Seale:
Folded the Writ vp in forme of the other,
Subscrib'd it, gau't th' impression, plac't it safely,
The changeling neuer knowne: Now, the next day
Was our Sea Fight, and what to this was sement,
Thou know'st already

   Hor. So Guildensterne and Rosincrance, go too't

   Ham. Why man, they did make loue to this imployment
They are not neere my Conscience; their debate
Doth by their owne insinuation grow:
'Tis dangerous, when the baser nature comes
Betweene the passe, and fell incensed points
Of mighty opposites

   Hor. Why, what a King is this?
  Ham. Does it not, thinkst thee, stand me now vpon
He that hath kil'd my King, and whor'd my Mother,
Popt in betweene th' election and my hopes,
Throwne out his Angle for my proper life,
And with such coozenage; is't not perfect conscience,
To quit him with this arme? And is't not to be damn'd
To let this Canker of our nature come
In further euill

   Hor. It must be shortly knowne to him from England
What is the issue of the businesse there

   Ham. It will be short,
The interim's mine, and a mans life's no more
Then to say one: but I am very sorry good Horatio,
That to Laertes I forgot my selfe;
For by the image of my Cause, I see
The Portraiture of his; Ile count his fauours:
But sure the brauery of his griefe did put me
Into a Towring passion

   Hor. Peace, who comes heere?
Enter young Osricke.

  Osr. Your Lordship is right welcome back to Denmarke

   Ham. I humbly thank you Sir, dost know this waterflie?
  Hor. No my good Lord

   Ham. Thy state is the more gracious; for 'tis a vice to
know him: he hath much Land, and fertile; let a Beast
be Lord of Beasts, and his Crib shall stand at the Kings
Messe; 'tis a Chowgh; but as I saw spacious in the possession
of dirt

   Osr. Sweet Lord, if your friendship were at leysure,
I should impart a thing to you from his Maiesty

   Ham. I will receiue it with all diligence of spirit; put
your Bonet to his right vse, 'tis for the head

   Osr. I thanke your Lordship, 'tis very hot

   Ham. No, beleeue mee 'tis very cold, the winde is
Northerly

   Osr. It is indifferent cold my Lord indeed

   Ham. Mee thinkes it is very soultry, and hot for my
Complexion

   Osr. Exceedingly, my Lord, it is very soultry, as 'twere
I cannot tell how: but my Lord, his Maiesty bad me signifie
to you, that he ha's laid a great wager on your head:
Sir, this is the matter

   Ham. I beseech you remember

   Osr. Nay, in good faith, for mine ease in good faith:
Sir, you are not ignorant of what excellence Laertes is at
his weapon

   Ham. What's his weapon?
  Osr. Rapier and dagger

   Ham. That's two of his weapons; but well

   Osr. The sir King ha's wag'd with him six Barbary horses,
against the which he impon'd as I take it, sixe French
Rapiers and Poniards, with their assignes, as Girdle,
Hangers or so: three of the Carriages infaith are very
deare to fancy, very responsiue to the hilts, most delicate
carriages, and of very liberall conceit

   Ham. What call you the Carriages?
  Osr. The Carriages Sir, are the hangers

   Ham. The phrase would bee more Germaine to the
matter: If we could carry Cannon by our sides; I would
it might be Hangers till then; but on sixe Barbary Horses
against sixe French Swords: their Assignes, and three
liberall conceited Carriages, that's the French but against
the Danish; why is this impon'd as you call it?
  Osr. The King Sir, hath laid that in a dozen passes betweene
you and him, hee shall not exceed you three hits;
He hath one twelue for mine, and that would come to
imediate tryall, if your Lordship would vouchsafe the
Answere

   Ham. How if I answere no?
  Osr. I meane my Lord, the opposition of your person
in tryall

   Ham. Sir, I will walke heere in the Hall; if it please
his Maiestie, 'tis the breathing time of day with me; let
the Foyles bee brought, the Gentleman willing, and the
King hold his purpose; I will win for him if I can: if
not, Ile gaine nothing but my shame, and the odde hits

   Osr. Shall I redeliuer you ee'n so?
  Ham. To this effect Sir, after what flourish your nature
will

   Osr. I commend my duty to your Lordship

   Ham. Yours, yours; hee does well to commend it
himselfe, there are no tongues else for's tongue

   Hor. This Lapwing runs away with the shell on his
head

   Ham. He did Complie with his Dugge before hee
suck't it: thus had he and mine more of the same Beauty
that I know the drossie age dotes on; only got the tune of
the time, and outward habite of encounter, a kinde of
yesty collection, which carries them through & through
the most fond and winnowed opinions; and doe but blow
them to their tryalls: the Bubbles are out

   Hor. You will lose this wager, my Lord

   Ham. I doe not thinke so, since he went into France,
I haue beene in continuall practice; I shall winne at the
oddes: but thou wouldest not thinke how all heere about
my heart: but it is no matter

   Hor. Nay, good my Lord

   Ham. It is but foolery; but it is such a kinde of
gain-giuing as would perhaps trouble a woman

   Hor. If your minde dislike any thing, obey. I will forestall
their repaire hither, and say you are not fit

   Ham. Not a whit, we defie Augury; there's a speciall
Prouidence in the fall of a sparrow. If it be now, 'tis not
to come: if it bee not to come, it will bee now: if it
be not now; yet it will come; the readinesse is all, since no
man ha's ought of what he leaues. What is't to leaue betimes?
Enter King, Queene, Laertes and Lords, with other Attendants with
Foyles,
and Gauntlets, a Table and Flagons of Wine on it.

  Kin. Come Hamlet, come, and take this hand from me

   Ham. Giue me your pardon Sir, I'ue done you wrong,
But pardon't as you are a Gentleman.
This presence knowes,
And you must needs haue heard how I am punisht
With sore distraction? What I haue done
That might your nature honour, and exception
Roughly awake, I heere proclaime was madnesse:
Was't Hamlet wrong'd Laertes? Neuer Hamlet.
If Hamlet from himselfe be tane away:
And when he's not himselfe, do's wrong Laertes,
Then Hamlet does it not, Hamlet denies it:
Who does it then? His Madnesse? If't be so,
Hamlet is of the Faction that is wrong'd,
His madnesse is poore Hamlets Enemy.
Sir, in this Audience,
Let my disclaiming from a purpos'd euill,
Free me so farre in your most generous thoughts,
That I haue shot mine Arrow o're the house,
And hurt my Mother

   Laer. I am satisfied in Nature,
Whose motiue in this case should stirre me most
To my Reuenge. But in my termes of Honor
I stand aloofe, and will no reconcilement,
Till by some elder Masters of knowne Honor,
I haue a voyce, and president of peace
To keepe my name vngorg'd. But till that time,
I do receiue your offer'd loue like loue,
And wil not wrong it

   Ham. I do embrace it freely,
And will this Brothers wager frankely play.
Giue vs the Foyles: Come on

   Laer. Come one for me

   Ham. Ile be your foile Laertes, in mine ignorance,
Your Skill shall like a Starre i'th' darkest night,
Sticke fiery off indeede

   Laer. You mocke me Sir

   Ham. No by this hand

   King. Giue them the Foyles yong Osricke,
Cousen Hamlet, you know the wager

   Ham. Verie well my Lord,
Your Grace hath laide the oddes a'th' weaker side

   King. I do not feare it,
I haue seene you both:
But since he is better'd, we haue therefore oddes

   Laer. This is too heauy,
Let me see another

   Ham. This likes me well,
These Foyles haue all a length.

Prepare to play.

  Osricke. I my good Lord

   King. Set me the Stopes of wine vpon that Table:
If Hamlet giue the first, or second hit,
Or quit in answer of the third exchange,
Let all the Battlements their Ordinance fire,
The King shal drinke to Hamlets better breath,
And in the Cup an vnion shal he throw
Richer then that, which foure successiue Kings
In Denmarkes Crowne haue worne.
Giue me the Cups,
And let the Kettle to the Trumpets speake,
The Trumpet to the Cannoneer without,
The Cannons to the Heauens, the Heauen to Earth,
Now the King drinkes to Hamlet. Come, begin,
And you the Iudges beare a wary eye

   Ham. Come on sir

   Laer. Come on sir.

They play.

  Ham. One

   Laer. No

   Ham. Iudgement

   Osr. A hit, a very palpable hit

   Laer. Well: againe

   King. Stay, giue me drinke.
Hamlet, this Pearle is thine,
Here's to thy health. Giue him the cup,

Trumpets sound, and shot goes off.

  Ham. Ile play this bout first, set by a-while.
Come: Another hit; what say you?
  Laer. A touch, a touch, I do confesse

   King. Our Sonne shall win

   Qu. He's fat, and scant of breath.
Heere's a Napkin, rub thy browes,
The Queene Carowses to thy fortune, Hamlet

   Ham. Good Madam

   King. Gertrude, do not drinke

   Qu. I will my Lord;
I pray you pardon me

   King. It is the poyson'd Cup, it is too late

   Ham. I dare not drinke yet Madam,
By and by

   Qu. Come, let me wipe thy face

   Laer. My Lord, Ile hit him now

   King. I do not thinke't

   Laer. And yet 'tis almost 'gainst my conscience

   Ham. Come for the third.
Laertes, you but dally,
I pray you passe with your best violence,
I am affear'd you make a wanton of me

   Laer. Say you so? Come on.

Play.

  Osr. Nothing neither way

   Laer. Haue at you now.

In scuffling they change Rapiers.

  King. Part them, they are incens'd

   Ham. Nay come, againe

   Osr. Looke to the Queene there hoa

   Hor. They bleed on both sides. How is't my Lord?
  Osr. How is't Laertes?
  Laer. Why as a Woodcocke
To mine Sprindge, Osricke,
I am iustly kill'd with mine owne Treacherie

   Ham. How does the Queene?
  King. She sounds to see them bleede

   Qu. No, no, the drinke, the drinke.
Oh my deere Hamlet, the drinke, the drinke,
I am poyson'd

   Ham. Oh Villany! How? Let the doore be lock'd.
Treacherie, seeke it out

   Laer. It is heere Hamlet.
Hamlet, thou art slaine,
No Medicine in the world can do thee good.
In thee, there is not halfe an houre of life;
The Treacherous Instrument is in thy hand,
Vnbated and envenom'd: the foule practise
Hath turn'd it selfe on me. Loe, heere I lye,
Neuer to rise againe: Thy Mothers poyson'd:
I can no more, the King, the King's too blame

   Ham. The point envenom'd too,
Then venome to thy worke.

Hurts the King.

  All. Treason, Treason

   King. O yet defend me Friends, I am but hurt

   Ham. Heere thou incestuous, murdrous,
Damned Dane,
Drinke off this Potion: Is thy Vnion heere?
Follow my Mother.

King Dyes.

  Laer. He is iustly seru'd.
It is a poyson temp'red by himselfe:
Exchange forgiuenesse with me, Noble Hamlet;
Mine and my Fathers death come not vpon thee,
Nor thine on me.

Dyes.

  Ham. Heauen make thee free of it, I follow thee.
I am dead Horatio, wretched Queene adiew,
You that looke pale, and tremble at this chance,
That are but Mutes or audience to this acte:
Had I but time (as this fell Sergeant death
Is strick'd in his Arrest) oh I could tell you.
But let it be: Horatio, I am dead,
Thou liu'st, report me and my causes right
To the vnsatisfied

   Hor. Neuer beleeue it.
I am more an Antike Roman then a Dane:
Heere's yet some Liquor left

   Ham. As th'art a man, giue me the Cup.
Let go, by Heauen Ile haue't.
Oh good Horatio, what a wounded name,
(Things standing thus vnknowne) shall liue behind me.
If thou did'st euer hold me in thy heart,
Absent thee from felicitie awhile,
And in this harsh world draw thy breath in paine,
To tell my Storie.

March afarre off, and shout within.

What warlike noyse is this?
Enter Osricke.

  Osr. Yong Fortinbras, with conquest come fro[m] Poland
To th' Ambassadors of England giues this warlike volly

   Ham. O I dye Horatio:
The potent poyson quite ore-crowes my spirit,
I cannot liue to heare the Newes from England,
But I do prophesie th' election lights
On Fortinbras, he ha's my dying voyce,
So tell him with the occurrents more and lesse,
Which haue solicited. The rest is silence. O, o, o, o.

Dyes

  Hora. Now cracke a Noble heart:
Goodnight sweet Prince,
And flights of Angels sing thee to thy rest,
Why do's the Drumme come hither?
Enter Fortinbras and English Ambassador, with Drumme, Colours,
and
Attendants.

  Fortin. Where is this sight?
  Hor. What is it ye would see;
If ought of woe, or wonder, cease your search

   For. His quarry cries on hauocke. Oh proud death,
What feast is toward in thine eternall Cell.
That thou so many Princes, at a shoote,
So bloodily hast strooke

   Amb. The sight is dismall,
And our affaires from England come too late,
The eares are senselesse that should giue vs hearing,
To tell him his command'ment is fulfill'd,
That Rosincrance and Guildensterne are dead:
Where should we haue our thankes?
  Hor. Not from his mouth,
Had it th' abilitie of life to thanke you:
He neuer gaue command'ment for their death.
But since so iumpe vpon this bloodie question,
You from the Polake warres, and you from England
Are heere arriued. Giue order that these bodies
High on a stage be placed to the view,
And let me speake to th' yet vnknowing world,
How these things came about. So shall you heare
Of carnall, bloudie, and vnnaturall acts,
Of accidentall iudgements, casuall slaughters
Of death's put on by cunning, and forc'd cause,
And in this vpshot, purposes mistooke,
Falne on the Inuentors head. All this can I
Truly deliuer

   For. Let vs hast to heare it,
And call the Noblest to the Audience.
For me, with sorrow, I embrace my Fortune,
I haue some Rites of memory in this Kingdome,
Which are to claime, my vantage doth
Inuite me,
  Hor. Of that I shall haue alwayes cause to speake,
And from his mouth
Whose voyce will draw on more:
But let this same be presently perform'd,
Euen whiles mens mindes are wilde,
Lest more mischance
On plots, and errors happen

   For. Let foure Captaines
Beare Hamlet like a Soldier to the Stage,
For he was likely, had he beene put on
To haue prou'd most royally:
And for his passage,
The Souldiours Musicke, and the rites of Warre
Speake lowdly for him.
Take vp the body; Such a sight as this
Becomes the Field, but heere shewes much amis.
Go, bid the Souldiers shoote.

Exeunt. Marching: after the which, a Peale of Ordenance are shot
off.


